<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
<version>1</version>

<head>
  <title>YH4F Frequently Asked Questions</title>
</head>

<body class="yh4f">
  <p id="category"><a href="/activities/yh4f/index.html">Youth Hacking 4 Freedom</a></p>

  <h1>Frequently Asked Questions</h1>

  <div id="introduction">
  <p>
	  If you have any questions on the Youth Hacking 4 Freedom contest you can 
	  always reach us via email at <email>contact@fsfe.org</email>. We 
	  will be happy to hear from you! However, we have already addressed some questions below that might be helpful.
  </p>
  </div>

<h2 id="when-and-where-does-yh4f-take-place-">When and where does YH4F take place?</h2>

  <p><strong>Step 1.</strong> Registration</p>
  <p>
    If you are interested to participate, please make sure to <a 
    href="https://survey.fsfe.org/index.php/658534">register</a>. We are open for late registration and you can always join Youth Hacking 4 Freedom until the 30th of June 2025. However, please keep in mind that there will be no extension of the programming period.
  </p>
  <p><strong>Step 2.</strong> Programming phase</p>
  <p>
	  From 1st of January 2025 to 30th of June 2025, the 
	  participants have six months to come up with an idea for their 
	  Free Software program and write it.
  </p>
  <p><strong>Step 3.</strong> Evaluation</p>
  <p>
	  From June on, the jury members evaluate the submitted programs. And in September we reach out to the winners and invite them to Brussels for the award ceremony.
	  In October the winners will be announced publicly in Brussels during the award ceremony.
  </p>
  <p><strong>Step 4.</strong> Award Ceremony</p>
  <p>
	  In October 2025, the winners receive their awards in Brussels and 
	  join social activities. Here they have the chance to meet the other winners in person, while all costs of the trip are covered.
  </p>

  <p>
	  The competition welcomes participants from all over Europe, 
	  therefore it takes place remotely. The award ceremony for the 
	  winners takes place in Brussels/Belgium.
  </p>

<h2 id="1-registration">1. Registration</h2>

<h3 id="i-do-not-have-an-idea-for-a-software-project-yet-can-i-register-">I do not have an idea for a software project yet. Can I register?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, only personal information is required for the registration. 
	  You can start organising your project after the start of the 
	  programming phase.
  </p>

<h3 id="i-am-a-beginner-in-programming-should-i-participate-">I am a beginner in programming. Should I participate?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, we would like to encourage you to participate despite being 
	  a beginner. Aim to have a program at the end of the programming phase 
	  that is simple and completed. Creating a simple program at your 
	  age is a major achievement. Everyone who submits a complete 
	  program gets a participation certificate.
  </p>

<h3 id="eligibility-criteria-for-registration">I do not live in the European Union and I have no European citizenship. Can I register?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, every teenager between 14 and 18 years old who lives in an European country can register. The country you live in does not have to be part of the European Union. Also you do not need to have citizenship from a European countries, as long as your main address is in an European country you can register. 
  </p>


<h3 id="isn-t-hacking-illegal-">Isn’t hacking illegal?</h3>
 <p>
	 Hacking is a word that is often misunderstood. It is not about 
	 breaking illegally into systems of other people. Instead, hacking 
	 means that you think around the corner and make things with 
	 computers that are innovative, meaningful, interesting or just 
	 fun. It is about taking control over your technology and use it 
	 freely for your ideas.
  </p>

<h3 id="will-i-fit-in-">Will I fit in?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, we are welcoming everyone in Youth Hacking 4 Freedom. 
	  Technology has to be inclusive so that it addresses all peoples’ 
	  needs. The competition is open to people from 40 countries, and 
	  welcomes people of all cultural backgrounds and all genders. Your 
	  interest in technology is all that is needed for you to fit it 
	  perfectly.
  </p>

<h2 id="2-coding-phase">2. Programming phase</h2>

<h3 id="what-happens-during-the-coding-phase-">What happens during the programming phase?</h3>
  <p>
	  From the 1st of January, it is time to start developing your 
	  program. During the programming period you will be invited to an 
	  online group meeting. There you will have the chance to present 
	  what you have done so far and briefly follow what the other 
	  participants are working on. This is a good time for everyone to 
	  share ideas and advice that might help others.
	</p>

<h3 id="can-i-collaborate-with-others-">Can I collaborate with others?</h3>
  <p>
	  Collaboration is an intrinsic value of Free Software. You can 
	  exchange ideas and collaborate with others, and at the same time 
	  you should have a clear understanding of the program you 
	  submit.
  </p>
    
<h3 id="what-type-of-software-should-i-make-">What type of software should I make?</h3>
  <p>
	  Think of a simple program that you wish existed but you have 
	  not found it yet. Its aim can be artistic, or it can be practical. It 
	  can address an everyday problem, or it can just be fun. 
	  Everything is welcome and we look forward to seeing your ideas. 
	  Of course, it should be <a href="/freesoftware/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>, so that 
	  others can use, study, share, and improve the code in the 
	  future.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-i-make-contributions-to-other-software-projects-">Can I make contributions to other software projects?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, absolutely. You can modify and combine existing programs, contribute to 
	  an existing project, or close an issue in the git. If you decide 
	  to do so, you should clearly indicate what exactly your 
	  contribution was, and what was done by others.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-my-program-make-use-of-hardware-">Can my program make use of hardware?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, it is fine if your program involves hardware. However, it is 
	  important that we and the jury members are in a position to see 
	  how your program works without accessing the hardware. We should 
	  be able to run your program on standard Free Software operating 
	  systems. If there is hardware involved, please keep in mind that 
	  the jury members cannot access it. Please document the software 
	  project in a way that the jury members can fully see the result 
	  and evaluate it. Share your code and consider additional ways of 
	  showing how your program works, such as a video. Please upload 
	  all the necessary files to your repository.
  </p>

<h3 id="how-much-time-should-i-invest-">How much time should I invest?</h3>

  <p>
	  It is up to you to choose how much time you want to invest in 
	  your project. You do not have to spend all the programming phase working on 
	  your project. We know you are busy with school and other 
	  activities. You can be flexible with your schedule and plan 
	  it as you wish. We are glad to offer you plenty of time so that 
	  you can expand your program as much as possible.
  </p>

<h3 id="i-run-into-a-problem-in-programming-can-i-ask-the-fsfe-for-help-">I run into a problem while programming. Can I ask the FSFE for help?</h3>

  <p>
	  If you run into problems with your project, we would encourage you to 
	  seek for help from a person you trust, or from an online tech 
	  community. There are plenty of programming meetups where you can get 
	  specific advice online and offline, and learn by following the work of 
	  others. We cannot provide solutions or hints, but you are welcome 
	  to get advice from people who can help you.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-i-submit-more-than-one-project-">Can I submit more than one project?</h3>

<p> 
	  Each participant/team can take part with one project. Consider to apply for further editions with your second best project. 
  </p>

<h2 id="3-evaluation">3. Evaluation</h2>

<h3 id="how-will-i-present-my-idea-">How will I present my idea?</h3>
  <p>
	  You should upload your program to an git instance and share the link with us. The <a 
	  href="/activities/yh4f/jury.html">jury members</a> will 
	 then evaluate it. From the submissions a shortlist is created and if you are part of this list you will be invited to present the 
	  software yourself to the jury members. Here you can share a few words 
	  about yourself. How you came up with your idea? It would be 
	  good if you explain the program step by step and show to a jury 
	  member what it does. Then, one or two members of the jury will ask you 
	  some practical questions. For example: ‘Why did you use this path 
	  instead of another?’ That is because we would like to understand 
	  your thinking and how you came up with your solution. There is 
	  not necessarily one right or wrong answer here. Feel free to 
	  share which problems you faced and how you overcame them. The 
	  jury members will take into account the age of the participants for the evaluation.
  </p>

<h2 id="4-award-ceremony">4. Award Ceremony</h2>

<h3 id="who-is-joining-the-award-ceremony-">Who is joining the Award Ceremony?</h3>
  <p>
	  The Youth Hacking 4 Freedom will invite the six winners of the 
	  competition to Brussels. If you won the competition we invite a parent/guardian of yours to join us for the award ceremony. So, you do not have to travel on your own. We will cover the travel and 
	  accommodation costs for you and one of your parents/guardians. In Brussels, 
	  you will meet other winners, jury members and members of the FSFE team.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-i-come-to-the-award-ceremony-if-i-have-not-won-the-competition-">Can I come to the Award Ceremony if I have not won the competition?</h3>
  <p>
	  If you have submitted a complete project but did not win the 
	  competition you are welcome to join the award ceremony if you 
	  decide to do so. Just let us know in advance. We will be glad to 
	  meet you.
  </p>

<h3 id="what-am-i-going-to-do-in-brussels-">What am I going to do in Brussels?</h3>
  <p>
	  You will spend two days in Brussels, staying in a nice hotel. The 
	  FSFE staff will help you get to the venue where the award 
	  ceremony takes place. The event will have top speakers in the 
	  field of Free Software and it will be a time of celebration. You 
	  made it! Your hard work paid off and you will receive your award. 
	  You will get to know other winners, FSFE staff members, and guest 
	  speakers. We will have various activities planed for you in Brussels and you will spend a weekend full of fun.
	  Meanwhile, you will be spending time with other like-minded Free 
	  Software hackers.
  </p>

  <p><strong>
    For any other question on the Youth Hacking 4 Freedom competition 
    please send us an email to <email>contact@fsfe.org</email>. We are 
    here to help you!</strong>
  </p>


</body>

</html>
