<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!--
	This page should describe the LLW.
	It is intended for participants and prospective participants to have an idea of what the event is about.
	Ideally it should include links to publicly available materials on the past editions.
-->

<html>
  <version>1</version>

	<head>
		<title>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop - FSFE Legal</title>
		
		<meta name="description" content="Details on the most prominent event on Free Software legal topics"/>
		
		<meta name="keywords" content="Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop, LLW, Legal Network, LN, European Legal Network, ELN, Free Software, Open Source, event, meeting, conference, licensing, FSFE, GPL, copyleft, licence violation, lawyers, law, legal experts, best practices, information, join, subscribe, participate"/>
	</head>
	
	<body>
		<p id="category"><a href="/activities/ln/ln.html">The Legal Network</a></p>
		
		<h1>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop</h1>
		
		<p>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop (also known as the LLW) is organized every year by the FSFE to allow legal experts to discuss legal issues and best practices surrounding Free Software licences. This event has become the world’s foremost gathering of lawyers, technologists, and thought leaders on Free Software legal and licensing topics. With up to three days of talks in an informal and confidential atmosphere, the Workshop advances the state of the art of knowledge on topics ranging from license compliance to patent management, from project governance to corporate responsibility and even further to the cutting edge issues themselves.</p>
		
		<p>Participation in the LLW provides legal professionals not only the opportunity to share knowledge and updates on the topics they are working on, but also a chance to meet and get acquainted with each other. These two aspects, combined, foster better license compliance by spreading best practices. The conference also provides a forum for different professionals to better understand each other, thus reducing the overall friction in the sector.</p>
		
		<p>Participation in the LLW is open to all Legal Network members. Invitations might be extended to non-members. If you think you might qualify, please send an e-mail directly to the Legal Coordinator, or to <a href="mailto:contact@fsfe.org">contact@fsfe.org</a>.</p>

		<p>As with the Legal Network mailing list, the LLW is subject to the Legal Network’s Code of Conduct and the Chatham House Rule (link to “LN Rules”).</p>

		<p>This page will provide you with <a href="/activities/ln/llw-past.html">information about past editions of the LLW</a>.</p>

	</body>
	
</html>

<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
