<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!--
  This is the main page about the LN.
  It is intended to give the visitor a general overview of what the LN is and to provide the necessary links to other, more detailed pages.
-->

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>The Legal Network</title>

    <meta name="description" content="Information about the largest structure for legal discussion on Free Software in the world."/>

    <meta name="keywords" content="Legal Network, LN, European Legal Network, ELN, Free Software, Open Source, licensing, FSFE, GPL, copyleft, licence violation, lawyers, law, legal experts, best practices, information, join, aim, scope, introduction"/>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>The Legal Network</h1>

    <!-- What -->
    <div id="introduction">
    <p>
      The Legal Network<a class="fn" id="ref-1" href="#fn-1">1</a> is a
      neutral, non-partisan, group of experts in different fields
      involved in Free Software legal issues. Currently the Legal
      Network has over 400 participants from different legal systems<a
      class="fn" id="ref-2" href="#fn-2">2</a>, academic backgrounds<a
      class="fn" id="ref-3" href="#fn-3">3</a> and affiliations<a
      class="fn" id="ref-4" href="#fn-4">4</a>.
    </p>
    </div>

    <!-- Why -->
    <p>
      The aim of the Legal Network is to promote discussion and foster
      better knowledge of the legal constructs that back Free Software.
      The conversations on the Legal Network are intended to be
      dynamic, thought-provoking and up to speed with the most recent
      developments.
    </p>

    <h2>Building Legal Expertise</h2>

    <p>
      Providing a neutral place of discussion allows the Free Software
      community at large to grow and develop in various ways. Through
      spirited discussions, the Legal Network can also speculate on
      possible complications that may arise with Free Software, before
      they emerge in legal practice. Consequently, it develops
      solutions and tries to build consensus around them in the Free
      Software legal community. Members of the Legal Network also use
      it to improve each other’s expertise in those fields in which
      they are less well-versed, contributing to the overall
      improvement legal expertise on Free Software.
    </p>

    <!-- How -->
    <p>
      The discussions of the Legal Network are held in a private mailing list. Through the <a href="/activities/ln/llw.html">Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop</a>, the Legal Network provides a catalyst for such activities, giving its members a chance to meet in person, present their works and ideas and get immediate feedback.
    </p>

    <!-- Output -->
    <h2>A Neutral and Protected Space for Discussion</h2>

    <p id="outreach"><a
    href="/activities/ln/application.html">Admission to the Legal
    Network</a> is restricted, and the discussions held there are
    confidential. Nevertheless, this does not mean that the content of
    the mailing list is contained away from the larger Free Software
    community. The <a
    href="https://www.chathamhouse.org/about-us/chatham-house-rule">Chatham
    House Rule</a> applies to all discussions on the Legal Network
    mailing list and at Legal Network events, which enables members to
    use the information received, but not to reveal the identity nor
    the affiliation of the speaker or any of the participants involved
    in the discussion.</p>

    <p>
      Discussions on the Legal Network mailing list and affiliated
      events are also subject to a Code of Conduct and <a
      href="/activities/ln/rules.html">general rules of moderation</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>The Council of the Legal Network</h2>

    <p>
      The <a href="/activities/ln/council.html">Council of the Legal
      Network</a> assists the FSFE with administering the Legal Network
      by providing the advice of expert members. It operates with a
      collaborative attitude and takes into account input from various
      sources, including interested parties, prominent members, and the
      FSFE.
    </p>

    <p>
      The Council is consulted on the prospective evolution of the
      Legal Network and operates as an advisory board of sorts for
      decisions taken by the FSFE.
    </p>

    <h2>Special Interest Groups</h2>

    <p>
      When a topic that requires more in-depth analysis arises, the
      Legal Network can sometimes set up a Special Interest Group
      (SIG). SIGs are subject to the same Code of Conduct as the Legal
      Network, but participants can invite experts from outside the
      Network if their input is deemed valuable. When the discussion on
      the original question has reached maturity, the SIG presents its
      output to the wider community.
    </p>

    <p>
      Any member of the Legal Network can propose the creation of a SIG
      on a new topic by contacting the Legal Coordinator, or by
      declaring such interest directly on the Legal Network mailing
      list.
    </p>

    <h2>How to Join the Legal Network</h2>

    <p>
      Given the high level of confidentiality of some discussions,
      admission to (and continued membership in) the Legal Network is
      subject to the approval of the FSFE and depends on the respect of
      the Legal Network regulations.
    </p>

    <p>
      Successful applicants will have expertise in legal matters
      pertaining to Free Software, and will join the Legal Network in
      order to share their knowledge with their peers from around the
      world. While some members are indeed affiliated with prominent
      companies or organisations, this does not constitute a factor in
      assessing membership, which is awarded on a personal basis.
    </p>

    <p>
      The Legal Network thrives in the diversity of its members. As
      such, there is a particular interest in welcoming new experts
      from the geographical areas that are currently under-represented
      (i.e. Eastern European countries, the Baltic states, Asia, South
      America and Africa).
    </p>

    <p>
      All applicants should have a current Legal Network member sponsor
      their application. If you intend to join or to propose someone as
      a Legal Network member, use our application form <a
      href="/activities/ln/application.html">application form</a>.
    </p>

    <h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>

    <ol>
      <li id="fn-1">Previously known as "European Legal Network".<a href="#ref-1" class="ref">&#8617;</a></li>
      <li id="fn-2">The Legal Network currently has members from 28 countries spread over 4 continents.<a href="#ref-2" class="ref">&#8617;</a></li>
      <li id="fn-3">The Legal Network is composed by highly competent legal professionals, engineers and other professional figures that contribute with their own specific knowledge.<a href="#ref-3" class="ref">&#8617;</a></li>
      <li id="fn-4">The Legal Network members are private practitioners, volunteers, relevant members of the Free Software community, employees of enterprises of different sizes.<a href="#ref-4" class="ref">&#8617;</a></li>
    </ol>
  </body>

</html>
