<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!--
  This page contains the general etiquette and moderation policy governing the LN.
  It is intended mostly for LN members or prospective members that what to know how to do something.
-->

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>The Legal Network - Etiquette and Moderation - FSFE</title>

    <meta name="description" content="Rules and procedures for the Legal Network."/>

    <meta name="keywords" content="Code of Conduct, Chatham House Rules, procedures, rules, violation, infraction, Legal Network, LN, European Legal Network, ELN, FSFE, reporting, confidentiality, breach, lawyers, law, legal experts, best practice"/>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/ln/ln.html">The Legal Network</a></p>

<h1>Legal Network Etiquette and Moderation Policy</h1>

<p>
  All public facing contributions on the mailing list are moderated by
  the FSFE to keep the discussion flowing and to maintain community and
  focus.
</p>

<p>
  We wish to build an online space for community building and working
  towards solutions. Accordingly, we want to discourage communications
  that can have a chilling effect on participation on the list.
</p>

<h2>Etiquette Guidelines for the Legal Network</h2>

<h3>General points of etiquette</h3>

<p>
  Please respect the views of other participants on the list even if
  you don’t agree with them.
</p>

<p>
  Be constructive. It is okay to disagree, and debate is encouraged.
  However, please keep the dialogue positive and respectful.
</p>

<p>
  Always keep the discussions civil, even if this can be difficult in
  situations where you feel provoked and/or are passionate about a
  topic. It is important to keep the discussion focused on the issues.
</p>

<p>
  Do not bully, harass, or threaten other participants, whether on- or
  off-list. It is up to each person on this list to participate in the
  discussions as much or as little as they wish. You therefore do not
  have the right to demand that another user supports their position
  with a detailed argument or respond to your questions (for example).
</p>

<h3>Avoid frequent and rapid posting</h3>

<p>
  As we are aware that many members of the Legal Network sign up to the
  mailing list using their work email, moderation is therefore employed
  in an attempt to reduce the signal-to-noise ratio. If an individual
  on the mailing list posts frequently on a single topic within a short
  period of time, the moderators can decide to place them on moderation
  (a process explained below), in order to control the volume of mail
  that the Legal Network mailing list pushes on to its members.
</p>

<p>
  This has been adopted as there is a concern that a topic that gets
  dominated by multiple postings by a few leaves no room for others to
  productively participate; that a large volume of incoming mail can
  cause established members to disengage from the discussion and/or
  mailing list, and discourage newcomers from participating as they may
  feel excluded or uninterested.
</p>

<h3>Avoid advertising and self-promotion, or promoting causes or commercial interests</h3>

<p>
   Please refrain from advertising and/or self-promotion, soliciting
   for commercial activity, as well as pressuring your fellow list
   members into joining your pet causes. Do note that the mere mention
   of a cause, interest, and/or commercial activity is not in itself a
   reason for moderation, if it is relevant to a discussion.
</p>

<h3>Sanctions</h3>

<p>
  In certain cases, a moderator may step in to place a particular user
  under moderation for a period of time. This means that the particular
  user’s emails are withheld for review by a moderator before they are
  approved to go through to the mailing list.
</p>

<p>
  Members placed under moderation will still be able to participate in
  Network discussions. Being under moderation does not mean your
  messages are blocked, nor that you are forbidden from participating
  in the discussions.
</p>

<p>
  When someone is placed on moderation, the fact of this and the
  reasons for doing so are communicated to them offlist, to avoid
  causing embarrassment or singling any particular person out.
</p>

<p>
  If you have concerns about moderation, please direct your queries and
  concerns to <a href="/contact">the FSFE</a>.
</p>

  </body>

</html>
