<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE - IPRED2 - The second &quot;Intellectual
    Property Rights&quot; Enforcement Directive</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <h1>Criminalisation of copyright and trademark infringement</h1>

    <p>
      Support FSFE's work on this and similar
      projects: <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/">join the Fellowship of
      FSFE</a>, <a href="/help/donate">donate to FSFE</a>, and
      encouraging others to do each.
    </p>

    <ol>
      <li><a href="#status">Status</a></li>
      <li><a href="#active">Previous activity</a></li>
      <li><a href="#summary">Summary of Directive</a></li>
      <li><a href="#harm">Harmful effects on software freedom</a>
	<ul>
	  <li><a href="#swpat">Software patents: Enforcement through fear</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#models">Harm to efficient software production/distribution models</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#abuse">Encouragement of commercial abuse, like SCO's</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#indemnification">Inability to indemnify</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#grey-areas">Developers in grey areas: DeCSS, filesharing</a></li>
	</ul>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#text">Reading the proposal text: &quot;2006/0168(COD)&quot;</a>
	<ul>
	  <li><a href="#directive">The procedure details</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#problems">The problems</a>
	    <ul>
	      <li><a href="#limits">Weak limits: &quot;intentional&quot; &amp; &quot;commercial scale&quot;</a></li>
	      <li><a href="#investigation">Disproportionate access for rights holders</a></li>
	    </ul>
	  </li>
	</ul>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#options">What we can work for</a></li>
      <li><a href="#links">External links</a></li>
    </ol>


    <h2 id="status">Current status</h2>

    <p>
      On the 25th of May, 2007, the European Parliament held it's "1st
      reading" vote.  FFII have published
      a <a
      href="http://action.ffii.org/ipred2/Plenary1_Tabled_Amendments">table
      with each of the amendments</a> indicating which were adopted
      and which were not.
    </p>


    <h2 id="active">Previous activity</h2>

    <p>
      For information on FSFE's position before the European
      Parliament's 1st reading, see
      <a href="letter-april-2007.html">our April 2007 open letter to
      the MEPs</a>.
    </p>


    <h2 id="summary">Summary of the Directive</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>The proposed
      Directive: <a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2006/com2006_0168en01.pdf">com(2006)168</a></li>
    </ul>

    <p class="quote">
      &quot;Article 3<br />
      Offences<br />
      Member States shall ensure that all intentional infringements of
      an intellectual property right on a commercial scale, and
      attempting, aiding or abetting and inciting such infringements,
      are treated as criminal offences.&quot;<br />
      (Article 3.  Page 9 of the proposed directive)
    </p>

    <p>
      The EU definition of &quot;Intellectual property rights&quot;
      lumps together patents, copyright, trademarks, design
      protections, and many other categories of law.  No definition is
      given for &quot;intentional&quot; or &quot;commercial
      scale&quot;, and no examples are given for what would be
      included or what would be excluded.
    </p>

    <p>
      This directive is often called &quot;IPRED2&quot;, however we
      recommend not using terms that talk about &quot;Intellectual
      Property&quot; as
      this <a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/not-ipr.html">leads
      to confusions</a> that make our work more difficult.  Instead,
      it can be called &quot;The Criminalisation Directive&quot;.
    </p>

    <h2 id="harm">Harmful effects on software freedom</h2>


    <h3 id="swpat">Software patents: Enforcement through fear</h3>

    <p>
      We expect that the European Parliament will amend the proposed
      Directive to exclude patents from the scope.  This is important
      because although the European Patent Convention excludes
      software from patentability, the European Patent Office is
      granting thousands of patents on software ideas.  While &gt;90%
      of litigation based on such patents would fail in court, they
      give the patent holders a legal basis for threatening software
      producers/distributors with litigation.
    </p>

    <p>
      If patent infringement is not removed from this Directive, then
      the threats of jail time, massive fines, seizing of assets, and
      closure of business could generate enough fear among computer
      users to make people obey invalide patents granted on software
      just because the stakes are too high.  (For more on the issue of
      software patents, see the page
      about <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">FSFE's work to
      prevent software patentability</a>.)
    </p>


    <h3 id="models">Harm to efficient software production/distribution models</h3>

    <p>
      Greatly increasing the risks involved in software development
      and distribution will indirectly discriminate against many
      software models.  High legal risks are easier to bear for bodies
      with large funds and full time legal staff.
      <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>, which
      is often contributed to by individuals, by Small- and
      Medium-sized Enterprises, and by businesses whose core business
      is not software, would be one category of software which would
      bear this indirect discrimination.
    </p>


    <h3 id="abuse">Encouragement of commercial abuse, like SCO's</h3>

    <p>
      Giving litigators increased access to the resources of national
      enforcement bodies, and increasing the severity of effects which
      can be achieved by litigation, will encourage people to use
      litigation as a commercial tool in the market.
    </p>

    <p>
      SCO in the USA is a well-known example of this: without proving
      anything or even showing any evidence, they have accused IBM and
      others of intentional, commercial-scale &quot;IP&quot;
      infringement, and have slowed the adoption rate of Free Software
      such as
      the <a
      href="/documents/gnuproject.html">GNU/Linux</a>
      operating system and harmed the reputation of a handful of
      companies (competitors to Microsoft, one of SCO's major
      funders).
    </p>


    <h3 id="indemnification">Inability to indemnify</h3>

    <p>
      Since criminal offenses cannot be indemnified against, patent
      litigation insurance would not be possible, and software
      producers could no longer provide indemnity to distributors of
      their software.
    </p>


    <h3 id="grey-areas">Developers in grey areas: DeCSS, filesharing</h3>

    <p>
      The European Copyright Directive (<a
      href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:32001L0029:EN:HTML">com(2001)29ec</a>)
      greatly increased the scope of copyright law.  As well
      as prohibiting unauthorised copying of information, copyright
      law now restricts how the public can use technology to access or
      view copyrighted information.  For example, you are a copyright
      infringer if you develop your own software to watch a standard
      DVD that you have bought.  Writing software to share files with
      others over a network could be copyright infringement; it's a
      grey area.  The threat of jail sentences and the other harsh
      measures in this directive could scare people away from writing
      or publishing many types of useful software, including types of
      software which are illegal-but-tolerated or which are grey areas.
    </p>



    <h2 id="text">Reading the proposal text: &quot;2006/0168(COD)&quot;</h2>

    <p>
      The IPRED2 proposal was originally published in two parts, but
      in May 2006 it was republished as one
      directive: <a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2006/com2006_0168en01.pdf">com(2006)168</a>).
    </p>

    <p>
      The reason for republishing and changing from two parts to one
      part is that there was a precedent-setting case in the European
      Court of Justice which implies that EU directives can require
      member states to implement criminal sanctions.
    </p>


    <h3 id="directive">The procedure details</h3>

    <p>
      The following information in this paragraph applies to the first
      published version of IPRED2, but it is likely to be the same for
      the current proposal.<br />EP Responsible committee: Legal
      Affairs (JURI)<br /> EP
      Rapporteur: <a
      href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/members/public/yourMep/view.do?language=EN&amp;id=28419">Nicola
      Zingaretti</a> (PSE, Italy).<br /> EP committees giving
      opinions: Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE), Internal Market
      and Consumer Protection (IMCO), Civil Liberties, Justice and
      Home Affairs (LIBE).
    </p>


    <h3 id="problems">The problems</h3>

    <p>
      The major problems with the directive are Articles 3 and 4
      (pages 9 and 10 of the document).  Article 3 is quoted in
      full <a href="#summary">above</a>.  Article 4 lists the harsh
      punishments that must be made available for the actions
      described in Article 3.  These include jail sentences, fines,
      closure of business, destruction of goods, being placed under
      judicial supervision, and a ban on access to public assistance.
    </p>

    <h4 id="limits">Weak limits: &quot;intentional&quot; &amp; &quot;commercial
      scale&quot;</h4>

    <p>
      The phrase &quot;<span style="font-style: italic;">all
      intentional infringements [...] on a commercial
      scale</span>&quot;, will lead many people to think that this
      directive will only apply to pre-meditated law-breaking for
      profit.
    </p>

    <p>
      Consider a patent holder's lawyer trying to coerce a software
      developer into ceasing distribution of their software.<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Hello.  You're infringing our patent, cease
      distribution of your software.&quot;<br />
      Software developer: &quot;There must be a mistake.  I've never
      read a patent, and anyway, software functionality isn't
      patentable in the EU.&quot;<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Well, the European Patent Office granted this
      patent, and you infringe it&quot;<br />
      Software developer: &quot;It's very unlikely to be held up in
      court.&quot;<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Since you intentionally wrote your software, and
      since your software is affecting the softwar market, your
      infringment is intentional and commercial scale - that makes you
      a criminal.  Will you cease distribution or risk getting a
      criminal record and possibly having your business closed, a
      large fine imposed, and maybe spend some time in jail?&quot;<br />
      Software developer: &quot;...but, my software development was
      intentional, but my infringement wasn't.  I didn't even know
      about this dubiously valid patent.&quot;<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Well, since I've accused you of infringing it,
      you're aware of it now.  So any continued infringement is
      definitely intentional.  Will you now cease
      distribution?&quot;
    </p>

    <p id="busker">
      A simpler example is a person playing songs on the street for
      the change that people throw.  The proposed text makes the
      musician a criminal if any song they play is copyrighted and is
      played without first obtaining a license.  It also makes the
      person that drove them into the city centre a criminal, for
      aiding the infringement.  People that throw money or stand
      around a listen could be criminals for inciting the
      infringement.  And anyone that can prevent the infringement, but
      doesn't, is a criminal for abetting the infringement.  This type
      of example can be useful to help people to understand how
      ludicrous the text is, but it doesn't explain the harm to
      software freedom, so it's only good as a stepping stone to
      further understanding.
    </p>


    <h4 id="investigation">Disproportionate access for rights holders</h4>

    <p>
      The directive also gives special privilege to rights holders to
      influence the investigation:
    </p>

    <p class="quote">&quot;Article 7<br />Joint investigation
      teams<br />The Member States must ensure that the
      holders of intellectual property rights concerned, or their
      representatives, and experts, are allowed to assist the
      investigations carried out by joint investigation teams into the
      offences referred to in Article 3.&quot;
    </p>

    <p>
      Also of concern is Article 8 (page 11) which says that Member
      States should investigate and prosecute &quot;intellectual
      property right&quot; infringements, even when the rights-holder
      has not requested it.
    </p>


    <h2 id="options">What we can work for</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>
	We can ask the European Parliament and the Council of
	Ministers to limit criminal sanctions to cases where the
	infringement was done to fund organised crime or causes a
	health or safety risk to the public.  Organised crime and
	public health and safety risks are stated as the
	justifications of this directive, so tying the Articles to the
	justifications seems reasonable.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can ask the European Parliament and the Council of
	Ministers to remove the criminalisation of &quot;attempting,
	aiding or abetting and inciting [intellectual property right]
	infringements&quot;.  For most EU member states,
	this is proposing harsher punishments for incitement or
	abetting of &quot;intellectual property right&quot;
	infringements than currently exist for actually committing
	such an infringement.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can build pressure in the European Parliament to simply
	reject this directive.  Drafting law is the European
	Commission's responsibility, not the European Parliament.
	Since the Commission has handed the Parliament this directive
	which is basically one single sentence containing undefined
	and vague terms, it would be reasonable for the Parliament to
	reject this proposal on the grounds that the Commission has
	not done its job.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can look into the case law of existing criminal sanctions
	for patent, copyright, and trademark infringement.  Some MEPs
	think that this direcitve is simply harmonising existing
	laws.  In fact, laws like this exist in very few EU members
	states - and it would be interesting if we knew how often they
	were used.  If they are old, rarely-used laws, then it would
	be hard for anyone to advocate making them mandatory across
	the EU.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can try to get patents excluded from this directive.  This
	is quite practical because patents are particularly easy to
	infringe unknowingly.  Doing so unknowingly may not shield
	anyone from the criminal sanctions here because
	&quot;intentional&quot; may apply to the act which lead to
	infringement (writing the software) rather than the
	infringement itself.  Further, even if unknowing infringement
	was excluded, this directive would give patent holders the
	power to turn an offence into a crime simply by informing the
	infringer.  This would have obvious uses in the market -
	informing an infringer just before a product release or during
	the bidding for a contract are two examples of valuable
	misuse.
      </li>

    </ul>


    <h2 id="todo">What needs to be done immediately</h2>

    <p>
      Hopefully this webpage will be useful for informing others.  If
      you think something should be added to this webpage, please
      contact us.
    </p>

    <p>
      Many Member States already have criminal sanctions for copyright
      and trademark infringement, and some even have criminal
      sanctions for patent infringement.  When politicians ask
      &quot;What harm have existing criminal sanctions caused in other
      EU Member States?&quot; we need to have a list of good examples.
      This list has to be gathered, and for that we need your help.
    </p>


    <h2 id="links">External links</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>
	The proposal: <a
        href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2006/com2006_0168en01.pdf">com(2006)168</a>.
        (Also linked to above.)
      </li>

<!--  Information should become available at this webpage, but it's not there now  -->
<!--       <li> -->
<!-- 	<a -->
<!-- 	href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/oeil/FindByProcnum.do?lang=en&amp;procnum=COD/2006/0168">The -->
<!-- 	European Parliament information page for the directive</a>. -->
<!--       </li> -->

      <li>
	<a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/not-ipr.xhtml">Did You
	Say &quot;Intellectual Property&quot;? It's a Seductive
	Mirage</a>, an essay by Richard Stallman about terminology.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:12012P/TXT">The
	Charter of Fundamental Rights</a>.  This directive seems to
	violate Article 49 on proportionality of criminal penalties.
      </li>

      <li>
	A ZDNet UK article: <a
	href="http://insight.zdnet.co.uk/business/legal/0,39020487,39211542,00.htm">Making
	IP infringement a crime</a>.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/en/com/pdf/2000/com2000_0789en01.pdf">com(2000)789</a>,
	a related Communication from the Commission.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://www.europa.eu.int/eur-lex/pri/en/oj/dat/2004/l_195/l_19520040602en00160025.pdf">IPRED-1,
	this directive's predecessor</a>
      </li>

    </ul>


  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
