<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2019-10-11" type="podcast">
<head>
  <title>SFP #1: On DRM with Cory Doctorow</title>
</head>
<body class="article">

<h1>
  SFP #1: On DRM with Cory Doctorow
</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
  We have a Podcast! Starting with this episode we will talk once a
  month with people who have inspiring ideas about software freedom. In
  our very first episode of our Software Freedom Podcast we address the
  issue of DRM together with Cory Doctrow. There are just very few
  people that inspired so many people from the Free Software community,
  like Cory Doctorow. For those listeners, who don't know him: Cory
  Doctorow is a British-Canadian writer and political activist and
  co-editor of the blog boingboing.net. And he is a prominent supporter
  of the idea of Software Freedom and a less restrictive copyright law.
  His books are published under Creative Commons licenses.
</p>

<audio-player />

<p>
  When we were planning the first episode, we exchanged some ideas for
  possible guests. When we heard that the Day Against DRM will take
  place in October we directly thought: we have to get Cory Doctorow as
  our first guest on digital restriction management. In our Software
  Freedom Podcast we talk about the difference between book and an
  e-book with DRM, how authors and artist can make money without DRM
  and lots of other questions related to this issue.
</p>

<h2>Today's "Day Against DRM"</h2>

<p>
  Digital Restrictions Management (DRM) is any technology that is built
  into an electronic product or service with the aim of limiting its
  range of uses after purchase. It is designed to prevent customers
  from using digital technology in ways that do not correspond to the
  business agenda of a content provider or device manufacturer.
</p>

<p>
  DRM is a class of technologies intended to limit the use of digital
  media and devices after sale. In essence, DRM refers to technology
  which inhibits a particular use of digital media where that use is
  not desired or intended by the hardware manufacturer, publisher or
  copyright holder. Free Software is software that puts the user in
  control of their own computers and devices. In contrast, Digital
  Restrictions Management is technology to put the user under control
  of a third party: these two goals seem fundamentally incompatible.
</p>

<p>Read more:</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="https://www.defectivebydesign.org/dayagainstdrm/2019">Day against DRM 2019</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/drm/drm.html">More information about DRM</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/spreadtheword#drm-leaflet">Informative leaflet explaining DRM</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://boingboing.net/">Boing Boing</a></li>
</ul>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>

<!-- Meta data for podcast, update with each episode! -->
<podcast>
  <subtitle>Interview with Cory Doctorow about DRM, how lack of technological control affects our society today and in the future, and his latest book "Unauthorized Bread". The perfect episode for the annual Day against DRM!</subtitle>
  <duration>39:42</duration>
  <episode>1</episode> <!-- number of episode -->
  <!-- OPUS -->
  <opus>
    <url>https://download.fsfe.org/audio/podcast/SFP01.opus</url>
    <length>9737111</length> <!-- size of file in bytes -->
  </opus>
  <!-- MP3 -->
  <mp3>
    <url>https://download.fsfe.org/audio/podcast/SFP01.mp3</url>
    <length>38125101</length> <!-- size of file in bytes -->
  </mp3>
  <chapters>
    <chapter start="0:00">Welcome to the podcast</chapter>
    <chapter start="0:25">Introduction to DRM and Cory Doctorow</chapter>
    <chapter start="38:38">Conclusion and closing words</chapter>
  </chapters>
</podcast>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
