<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Campaigns - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
  
  <!--Please do not translate that yet-->
    <h1>Campaigns</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
    <p>
      Along with <a href="/projects/work.html">our continued work</a> for Free
      Software, we support specific objectives by organizing and participating
      in several campaigns.
      </p>
    </div>
    
    <ul id="campaigns" class="overview">
      <li>
      	<h3><a href="http://pdfreaders.org/">PDFreaders.org</a></h3>
    <p>
	  Launched by
	  the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellowship</a> of
	  FSFE, pdfreaders.org is a site providing information about
	  Free Software PDF readers for all major operating systems.
      	</p>
      </li>

      <li>
      	<h3><a href="/projects/drm/">DRM.info</a></h3>
      	
        <p>
      	  DRM.info is a collaborative platform initiated and maintained by
      	  FSFE to inform on the dangers of Digital Restrictions Management
      	  and make visible the concerns from various different groups.
          <a href="http://www.drm.info">DRM.info</a> contributors include digital liberty groups, consumer
      	  protection, net-activism and library organisations.
      	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/valentine-2010/">I love Free Software</a></h3>
        
        <p>
          Valentines Day is a celebration of love and affection between intimate
          companions. This year why not take the opportunity to show you care
          about the people and Free Software that show you love all year round?
          Here are our suggestions for making this February the fourteenth a
          very special day.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <ul class="overview">
      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="/projects/wipo/wiwo.html">Towards a
          World Intellectual Wealth Organization</a></h3>
      	
        <p>
      	  We endorse and support the Geneva Declaration, and invite its
      	  drafters, signatories, and the United Nations to start thinking
      	  now not only about what the role of WIPO should be, but rather
      	  what kind of organisation it should become in the future in
      	  order to manage our intellectual wealth.
      	</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/btw09/btw09.html">“Ask your candidates” -
            German Federal Election 2009</a></h3>
	
        <p>
          During the German federal elections in 2009, FSFE called on
          all German Free Software supporters to ask the parties'
          candidates about their positions on Free Software and Open
          Standards.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <p style="clear: both;">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe has worked on many other issues and
      campaigns. See our <a href="/projects/finished.html">Finished And
        Discontinued Campaigns</a> for details of what we've achieved.
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-01-14 14:08:10 +0100 (jeu. 14 janv. 2010) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
