<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title> New Education Campaign! </title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p id="category">
      <a href="/projects/work.html">Our Work</a>
    </p>
    <h1>New Education Campaign!</h1>
    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
	The adoption of Free Software by schools and educational institutions is
fundamental for our society. Following a campaign that started in the
Netherland, where a crucial debate is going on at the political level, we
wish to support the adoption of Open Standards and Free Software by all
public-funded institutions in Europe, sharing the same objectives of our Dutch
partners. 
Schools should teach children to be good members of the community, and should
not provide product training for companies that do not respect freedom. 
      </p>
    </div>
    <h2>What is our struggle about</h2>
    <ul>
	<li>We wish to make the use of open standard mandatory for all the
public-funded institutions. Only open standards can assure a truly democratic
and reliable access to information in the long periode. </li>
	<li>We wish to make platform-independent access to services and
information for public institutions mandatory. Proprietary services can force
students and their families to buy and use proprietary software.</li>
	<li>We struggle to stop the practice of free training for producers of
proprietary software in public schools through the teaching of limited product
specific skills. Free software allow student to share their software and to
study how it works. It eliminates wage distinctions among
different students: that's democracy! Furthermore, it helps teachers to teach
values as tolerance and solidarity. The adoption of proprietary software in
schools teaches students to
be dependent from proprietary software producers. Free software allows them to
understand the value of freedom.</li>
	<li>We strive to stop the practice of selling software to teachers,
students and their families against prices that are exremely below market
prices.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      In order to make sure this subjects are included in the European political
agenda, and make sure that important policy change take place, we need to
encourage public awareness at any level of the society. Your help is crucial.
    </p>
    <h2>How can I contribute?</h2>
    <p>You can donate money to this campaign or your time (volunteering). You
can also help us to spread the word!</p>
<h2>Sources for further information</h2>
  <ul>
        <li><a
href="http://www.janstedehouder.nl/2011/09/28/make-the-use-of-open-standards-in-
education-mandatory/">Jan Stedehouder's page about the adoption of Open
Standards in education in the Netherlands.</a> </li>
    <li><a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/education/argumentation.en.html"></a></li>
    <li><a
href="http://fsfe.org/documents/rms-fs-2006-03-09.en.html#free-software-and-
schools">Richard Stallman talking about this during another talk</a> </li>
    <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=110">Stallman's acceptance
speech for an honorary degree in Pavia</a></li><li><a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=57">Stallman talks about the WSIS
development agenda</a></li>
    <li><a
href="http://www.salzburg.luga.or.at/linux_in_der_schule.html">Argumentation pro
Free Software in German (GFDL)</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.donau-uni.ac.at/de/aktuell/presse/archiv/05610/index.php"></a></li>
  </ul>
  </body>
</html>