<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-05-29">
  <version>1</version>

<head>
  <title>FSFE is hiring: EU public policy programme manager </title>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>
    FSFE is hiring: EU public policy programme manager
  </h1>

  <p>We are looking for a programme manager for our policy work. The person will work 35 hours per week with our team in the FSFE's Berlin office. There will be coordination with remote staff and volunteers, as well as regular travels to Brussels and other countries.</p>
  
  <h2 id="aboutthefsfe">About the FSFE</h2>

	<p>Free Software Foundation Europe is a charity that empowers users to control technology. Software is deeply involved in all aspects of our lives; and it is important that this technology empowers rather than restricts us. Free Software gives everybody the rights to use, understand, adapt and share software. These rights help support other fundamental freedoms like freedom of speech, press and privacy.</p>

	<p>The FSFE helps individuals and organisations to understand how Free Software contributes to freedom, transparency, and self-determination. It enhances users' rights by abolishing barriers to Free Software adoption, encourages people to use and develop Free Software, and provides resources to enable everyone to further promote Free Software in Europe.</p>

	<p>Our main policy topics cover Free Software and Open Standards issues on the EU and member state level. Currently the main focus is on <a href="https://publiccode.eu">"Public Money Public Code"</a> campaign, <a href="http://savecodeshare.eu/">"Save Code Share"</a>, <a href="/activities/radiodirective/">"EU Radio Lockdown directive"</a> </p>

	<p>We work together with the European Commission and Parliament, as well as with politicians and civil servants in EU countries. This work is either done directly by staff or together with volunteers, as well as other Free Software and digital rights associations around Europe.</p>

	<h2 id="mainresponsibilities">Main responsibilities</h2>

	<ul>
		<li>Identify and monitor EU policy developments and alert the FSFE's network on relevant issues;</li>

		<li>Lead or support policy campaigns by the FSFE</li>

		<li>Prepare and organise events and meetings with the community and policy makers;</li>

		<li>Ad-hoc research on diverse policy areas;</li>

		<li>Contribute to the delivery of EU projects and actively monitor further opportunities;</li>	

		<li>Support the creation of communication materials;</li>

		<li>Represent the FSFE towards policy makers and other actors on all levels in EU institutions.</li>
</ul>

	<h2 id="qualifications">Qualifications</h2>

	<ul>
		<li>Knowledge of EU's political environment, plus ability to understand or learn the policy environment of Member States on demand. Ideally demonstrated by work experience.</li>

		<li>Strong written and verbal communication skills, ideally public speaking skills.</li>
    
    <li>Ability to find compromises when working within the team and with other partner organisations.</li>

		<li>Good knowledge about the Free Software field and affinity with the FSFE's values and mission</li>

		<li>Being able to explain technical issues to policy makers and policy issues to a mainly technical community</li>

		<li>Fluency in written and spoken English; other EU languages (ideally French or German) are considered an asset</li>

		<li>Experience in campaigning for social and political issues</li>

		<li>Knowledge and/or experience in understanding the non-profit sector, especially experience in working with volunteers.</li>

		<li>Work experience in the policy related field</li>

		<li>Knowledge how to use a GNU/Linux laptop is a plus.</li>
	</ul>

<h2 id="attitude">Attitude</h2>

<p>We are looking for a reliable team player who is passionate about
driving new initiatives to make the world a better place for further
generations. While working patiently and discreetly on concrete mid-term
improvements you should do this in a sustainable way and keep the
long-term focus on the FSFE's mission.</p>

<h2 id="howtoapply">How to apply</h2>

<p>To apply please send a maximum one-page cover letter including a salary
proposal for a 35 hour week and a maximum two-page CV (only PDFs are
accepted) by email to jobs@fsfe.org subject "Policy" (your personal data
will be deleted 3 months after we took a decision). Closing date for
applications is <strong>24 June 2018</strong>. Interviews with selected candidates
will take place in early July. Start date for the job would be ~15
August 2018.</p>

<p>Free Software is meant to serve everyone regardless of their age,
ability or disability, gender identity, sex, race, religion, or sexual
orientation. Hence, we encourage applications from all backgrounds and
promise to judge all applications on merit, without reference to any of
the characteristics listed.  To promote diversity and equality in the
Free Software community, we will give preference to applicants who
identify as part of a traditionally underrepresented demographic in
technology for applications of equal strength.</p>
  



  </body>
  
 <tags>
  <tag key="front-page"/>
 	<tag key="internal">Internal</tag>
	<tag key="policy">Policy</tag>
	<tag key="career">Job position</tag>
 </tags>
 
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
