<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-06-13">
  <version>1</version>


<head>
    <title>Technical Note: Mail Issues on June 8</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<h1>Technical Note: Mail Issues on June 8</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">On Friday morning, one of our servers had a fatal 
hardware crash. This affected parts of our mail infrastructure and 
mailing lists. Meanwhile, all services are back to normal. We would 
like to inform you about what happened and which problems it caused. In a 
nutshell: Please make sure your emails arrived and check your SMTP 
settings.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, due to the downtime, a small number of mails sent 
during this time to some of our <a 
href="https://lists.fsfe.org/">mailing lists</a> may have been lost 
while most have just been delayed. Please make sure that your mails 
sent on 8 and 9 June arrived their destination by checking the 
archives, and resend them if necessary. If you still experience 
problems, please <a href="/contact/">get in touch with us</a>.</p>

<p>Background: The said server lost one of its hardware components for 
which we weren't able to get a replacement at short notice. This forced 
us to migrate the setup and data to a new host. We have been able to 
bring the most critical service back to life within the course of the 
day, others were reestablished during the weekend.</p>

<p>At the same time, we modernised large parts of the mail 
infrastructure, for instance anti-spam measurements. This also involves 
a change in our SMTP setting for people using this service: From now on 
we will no longer accept mails delivered to port 25. Please make sure 
to use port 587 if you would like to send emails, and make sure the 
settings in your email clients match <a 
href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/SMTP">our recommendations</a>.</p>

<p>Please excuse the inconveniences this caused. We will work hard to 
prevent such a long downtime of a critical service in the future. If 
you would like to support our technical team, please don't hesitate to 
reach out to our <a 
href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Teams/System-Hackers/">System 
Hackers</a>.</p>


</body>
  <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag content="System Hackers">SystemHackers</tag>
  </tags>
  <author id="dengg"/>
  <author id="mehl"/>
</html>
