<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-07-16">
<head>
  <title>FSFE is hiring: project manager</title>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>
    FSFE is hiring: project manager
  </h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">We are looking for a project manager to support
  our work to empower people to control technology. The person will work
  35 hours per week with our team in the FSFE's Berlin office supporting
  FSFE projects and managing larger FSFE events. There will be
  coordination with remote staff and volunteers, as well as travels
  to other countries.</p>
  
  <h2 id="aboutthefsfe">About the FSFE</h2>

  <p>Free Software Foundation Europe is a charity that empowers users to
  control technology. Software is deeply involved in all aspects of our
  lives; and it is important that this technology empowers rather than
  restricts us. Free Software gives everybody the rights to use,
  understand, adapt and share software. These rights help support other
  fundamental freedoms like freedom of speech, press and privacy.</p>

  <p>The FSFE helps individuals and organisations to understand how Free
  Software contributes to freedom, transparency, and self-determination.
  It enhances users' rights by abolishing barriers to Free Software
  adoption, encourages people to use and develop Free Software, and
  provides resources to enable everyone to further promote Free Software
  in Europe.</p>

  <p>We are involved in legal, economic, political, and technical
  projects around Free Software (see <a
  href="https://fsfe.org/work.html">our work areas</a> and <a
  href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/campaigns.html">our
  campaigns</a>).</p>

  <p>In the <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/ln.html">Legal
  network</a> we facilitate the discussion between legal and technical
  experts around Free Software legal and licensing questions. For this
  audience the FSFE also organises a yearly workshop for ~120 experts in
  this field.</p>

  <p>In our work we build upon our volunteers in cooperation with other
  organisations, companies, and public administrations.</p>


  <h2 id="mainresponsibilities">Main responsibilities</h2>
  
  <ul>
    <li>Lead or support existing and new projects by the FSFE (for example FOSS4SMEs, <a href="http://reuse.software/">REUSE.Software</a>, or sub projects of <a href="https://publiccode.eu">Public Money Public Code</a>).</li>
    <li>Manage and organise larger FSFE events in the legal, economic, social or political field, and support volunteers in being successful in events they organise.</li>
    <li>Organise logistics, in particular around the Call for Paper process, and the execution of the <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/legal-conference.html">Legal and Licensing Workshop for ~120 people</a>, as well as community gatherings <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events/LSMandCommunityMeeting2018">like the FSFE’s 2018 community meeting</a>.</li>
    <li>Communicate about the projects and events with our volunteers and the general public.</li>
    <li>Moderate and summarise discussions on mailing lists to enable process while making sure participants keep to <a href="https://fsfe.org/about/codeofconduct.html">the FSFE’s Code of Conduct</a>.</li>
    <li>Contribute to the delivery of EU funded projects and actively monitor further opportunities (currently we are involved in FOSS4SMEs, for former EU funded projects, have a look at <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/finished.html">STACS, SELF, or AGNULA</a>).</li>
    <li>Represent the FSFE at events and meetings.</li>
  </ul>
  
  <h2 id="qualifications">Qualifications</h2>
  
  <ul>
    <li>Experience with project management, ideally state-funded projects and projects with the involvement of volunteers, demonstrated by work experience.</li>
    <li>Experience with organising larger events and meetings, demonstrated by work experience.</li>
    <li>Strong written and verbal communication skills, ideally public speaking skills.</li>
    <li>Experience with moderation in meetings. Experience in mailing lists and chat moderation are a plus.</li>
    <li>Ability to find compromises when working within the team and with other partner organisations.</li>
    <li>Good knowledge about the Free Software field and affinity with the FSFE's values and mission.</li>
    <li>Ablility to understand legal, economic, political, and slightly technical arguments about Free Software, and then being able to lead projects which involve people from those different backgrounds.</li>
    <li>Fluency in written and spoken English; other EU languages are considered an asset.</li>
    <li>Knowledge and/or experience in understanding the non-profit sector, especially experience in working with volunteers.</li>
    <li>Knowledge how to use a GNU/Linux laptop is a plus.</li>
  </ul>
  
  <h2 id="attitude">Attitude</h2>
  
  <p>We are looking for a reliable team player who is passionate about
  driving new initiatives to make the world a better place for further
  generations. While patiently and discreetly making concrete mid-term
  improvements, you should work sustainably and keep the long-term focus
  on the FSFE’s mission.</p>
  
  <h2 id="howtoapply">How to apply</h2>
  
  <p>To apply, please send a maximum one-page cover letter including a
  salary proposal for a 35 hour week and a maximum two-page CV (only PDFs
  are accepted) by email to jobs@fsfe.org, with the subject “Project
  manager”. Please do not include pictures of you in the application. Your
  personal data will be deleted 3 months after we took a decision. Closing
  date for applications is <strong>15 August 2018</strong>. Interviews
  with selected candidates will take place at the end of August. Start
  date for the job would be ~15 September or early October 2018.</p>
  
  <p>Free Software is meant to serve everyone regardless of their age,
  ability or disability, gender identity, sex, race, religion, or sexual
  orientation. Hence, we encourage applications from all backgrounds and
  promise to judge all applications on merit, without reference to any of
  the characteristics listed. To promote diversity and equality in the
  Free Software community, we shall give preference to applicants who
  identify as part of a traditionally marginalised demographic in
  technology for applications of equal strength.</p>

</body>
  
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
 	<tag content="Internal">internal</tag>
	<tag content="Projects">projects</tag>
	<tag content="Job position">career</tag>
 </tags>
 
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
