<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>
    Endings and Beginnings - 17th September 2004
    </title>
  </head>

<body>
    <h1>
    Endings and Beginnings
    </h1>
    <p>by Georg Greve</p>

<p>
Originally published in German Handelsblatt Nr. 181, 2004 September 17th,
Page 19
</p>

<p>
Do you know what "Digital Rights Management" - aka DRM - is? Here's how it
works: Your newspaper is available via subscription only - buying from
a kiosk isn't an option. The publishing house make you agree to only read
the paper at home. As soon as you leave your house, the letters on the
page disappear - unless you paid an additional fee. And if you cancel your
subscription, all the letters on all the papers you've collected also
disappear.
</p>

<p>
You think I'm delusional and need to visit a psychiatrist? Well, this
scenario is completely based on reality: "Janus" is a service from
Microsoft to "rent" music and exactly follows the model described above.
And if the customers accept it, then the company can look forward to
easy money.
</p>

<p>
And there are other IT companies who also want to profit from rights
management: There is a notebook chip provided by IBM, Utimaco delivers
encryption software.
</p>

<p>
But what does this have to do with your rights? In choosing a name, Microsoft
went back to Roman mythology: Janus was worshipped as god of the
beginning and the end. And in name Microsoft have begun the end of user
rights and the beginning of user restrictions: Digital Restriction
Management - the acronym DRM remains the same.
</p>

</body>
  
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
