<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software Foundation Europe - News - APRIL disassociates from FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>

 <h3>May 10th, 2004</h3>

 <h1>APRIL disassociates from FSFE</h1>

 <p>Today the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) complied with the
 explicit request to please remove the "Association for Promotion and
 Research in Libre Computing" (APRIL) from the list of associate
 organisations. The request was made by APRIL president and FSFE
 member Frederic Couchet along with his resignation from FSFE.</p>

 <p>The reasons provided by APRIL were accumulated cultural differences
 that made it difficult to continue cooperation on such a close
 level. The Free Software Foundation Europe thanks the Association for
 Promotion and Research in Libre Computing for vital support in the
 first years and hopes this step will make it easier to look beyond
 what sets us apart and concentrate on what we have in common
 instead. </p>

 <p>Both organisations wish to reaffirm strongly their firm
 cooperation. "This is parting as friends," says Frederic Couchet,
 president of APRIL. He continues: "When we decided to take this step,
 my feeling was that I should be consistent and not remain French
 representative of the FSFE while being president of APRIL."</p>
  
 <p>"A European culture may be arising, but cooperating across cultural
 boundaries is still not something you get taught in schools. It is
 very, very difficult," says Georg Greve, president of the FSFE. "We
 understand that APRIL feels the need for more cultural autonomy and
 respect that decision."</p>
 
 <p>There is no doubt that we will be working together in the future,
 whatever that may bring.</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$ </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
