<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Call for donations</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <h3>July 1st, 2004</h3>

    <h1>Call for donations</h1>

    <ul>
    <p>
      Free Software "<em>...should be seen, then, as more than just a
      different kind of product. It is a different kind of process for
      building, maintaining and changing the rules that govern
      information flows.</em>" - according to the United Nations.
    </p>

    <p>
An institution working for Free Software in Europe is the Free
Software Foundation Europe (FSFE). Its success is well known: "<em>The
Free Software Foundation does a great job - for example by protecting
the rights of Free Software developers. Therefore we support the
FSFE</em>", says Paul Salazar, director of marketing for the GNU/Linux
Distributor Red Hat in Europe, the middle East and Africa. He is not
alone with this positive view.</p>

<p>Horst Nebgen, Vice President, Novell, Central Europe and
Managing Director, Novell, Germany explains: "<em>Novell released the
installation and configuration tool "YAST" (yet another setup tool)
under the GPL (GNU General Public License), to make it accessible for
every developer. The GPL - and therefore the FSFE[/US] by which it is
published, maintained and protected - guarantees transparency and
platform independence, which assures that through the ability of Free
Software to innovate, the already proverbial stability, security and
broad network support of [GNU/]Linux continue to evolve and
advance. Therefore, for Novell, the Free Software Foundation Europe is
an important partner on its way into the future.</em>"
    </p>

    <p>
      "<em>We are of course very happy about this praise</em>", says Georg
      Greve, President of the FSFE. "<em>What makes this public
      appreciation particularly significant is that the FSFE never
      spared with criticism of these very companies when it seemed
      necessary. Obviously the job done by the FSFE is appreciated
      even if we even if we have to speak out quite clearly at
      times. This independence from politics, industry and other
      associations is a prerequisite for our present successes and the
      basis for our continued work.</em>"
    </p>

    <p>
      The projects of the FSFE are multifaceted: participation in the
      German government's delegation at the "World Summit on the
      Information Society (WSIS)", consulting with the European Union
      during the establishment of the framework programmes,
      participation in AGNULA, a project to build a fully Free
      Software distribution for professional musicians and multimedia
      authors and also the maintenance and advancement of the GNU
      General Public License (GPL).  This diversity costs a lot of
      money, including: travel around the world, information production,
      marketing materials and personnel.
    </p>

    <p>
      The FSFE Coordinator for Germany, Bernhard Reiter, illustrates
      the background: "<em>We want to pursue our projects at the highest
      level.  Moreover, we observe an increasing demand for support of
      the public: we are asked to give speeches and to consult on
      licensing Free Software. We would like to do all of this. However,
      without <a href="/help/donate.html">funding</a> our hands are
      tied.</em>"
    </p>

    </ul>

    <h3>How to support this call</h3>

    <ul>
     <li><b>donate</b> with your company. Please see our <a
     href="/help/donate.html">information for donors</a> for
     details. Please also check out our <a
     href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.html">sponsor
     graphics</a> and don't forget to tell us whether you want to be
     <a href="/help/thankgnus.html">listed publicly</a> </li><br />

     <li><b>link</b> to the <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">FSFE
     web site</a> or <a
     href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/news/2004/news-20040701.en.html">this
     campaign directly</a>.</li><br />

     <li><b>inform</b> your company about this campaign and ask them
     to participate.</li>

    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
