<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software Section - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<p id="category"><a href="/about.html">About</a></p>
    <div align="center">
      <h2>Free Software, Free Society</h2>
    </div> 

<p id="introduction"> 
 Free in Free Software is referring to freedom, not price. More precisely, it is about <a href="www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/basics/4freedoms">four freedoms</a> : use, study,share, improve. Having been used
  in this meaning since the 80s, the first documented complete definition
  appears to be the GNU's Bulletin, vol. 1 no. 1 [<a name="ref1"
    href="#1">1</a>], published February 1986.   
</p>

    <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) was founded in
     2001 as the sister organisation of the Free Software Foundation
     (FSF) in the USA to take care of all aspects of <a href="freesoftware.html">Free Software</a> in
     Europe.</p>

<p>
  You'll find in this section basic information on Free Software, its history, its current relevance for our society, our economy and our educational system, but also some information on the legal aspects of Free software and much more...
</p>


    <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/basics">Free Software : What, Where from, why, what for ?</a></h3>
        <p>
          General information to better understand Free Software, its history and philosophy.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/education">Education</a></h3>
        <p>
          Learn about the importance of Free Software in the education.
        </p>
      </li>
<li>    <h3><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/society">Society</a></h3>
<p>
Read more about the benefits of Free Software for our society.</p></li>
      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/legal">legal</a></h3>
        <p>
          Get acquainted to the licenses of Free Software and the underlying logic.
        </p>
      </li>
<li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/transcripts">There is so much more...</a></h3>
        <p>
        If you want to get deeper into the subject, you'll find a list of transcripts of talks dealing with Free Software.
        </p>
      </li>
<li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://www.fsfe.org/freesoftware/economy">Economy</a></h3>
        <p>
          More information on the economic model of Free Software and their advantages for our economy.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-08-06 14:09:58 +0200 (Fri, 06 Aug 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
