<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>French Cantonal Elections, March 2011</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <p id="category"><a href="/campaigns/askyourcandidates/askyourcandidates.html">The Ask Your Candidates Campaign</a></p>
	  
	  <h1>French Cantonal Elections, March 2011</h1>
	  
	  <p id="introduction">	
		As a part of the Ask Your Candidates campaign, the Free Software Foundation Europe sent a questionnaire to each French party asking of their intentions regarding free software, its promotion, and other related questions. Below are the responses from parties that replied to us.
	  </p>

    
    <h2>Party Responses</h2>
    
    
    <p class="question">
      <strong>1. </strong>
	  Do you have any intention to promote free software, and if so, how? Do you also aim to support small and medium businesses who are able to exist through the use of free software, and if so, how?
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer alliancecentriste">
      <strong>Alliance Centriste (AC):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer eelv">
      <strong>Europe Écologie - Les Verts (EELV):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer modem">
      <strong>Mouvement Démocrate (MoDem):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer mrc">
      <strong>Mouvement Républicain et Citoyen (MRC):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer nouveaucentre">
      <strong>Nouveau Centre (NC):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer pcf">
      <strong>Parti Communiste Français (PCF):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
        
    <p class="answer prg">
      <strong>Parti Radical de Gauche (PRG):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer partisocialiste">
      <strong>Parti Socialiste (PS):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    <p class="answer ump">
      <strong>Union pour un Mouvement Populaire (UMP):</strong> Responses will be published from Friday.
    </p>
    
    
    <p class="question">
      <strong>2. </strong>
	  In the case of commercial software, the developer itself decides who is authorized to make modifications to the software. This enables monopolies on associated services, and leads to a dependency on the developer. Do you intend to take measures to counter monopolies on these services in the software domain?
    </p>
    
    
    <p class="question">
      <strong>3. </strong>
	  A substantial implementation of open standards in public sectors allows competition between software companies. Do you agree with the definition of the open standards <a href="http://fsfe.org/activities/os/def.fr.html">found here</a>? Do you wish to intervene in order to implement them within the public sector, and if so, how would you do so?
    </p>
    
    
    <p class="question">
      <strong>4. </strong>
	  Does your party intend to promote the use and teaching of free software in educational institutions, so as to not offer a 'school of products' featuring only certain software, but the comprehensive education of a technological tool independent any one name or product in particular? If so, how? 
    </p>
    
    
    <p class="question">
      <strong>5. </strong>
	  Many organizations have publicity on their websites for commercial software, for example the PDF reader <a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.fr.html#FR">Adobe Acrobat Reader</a>.<br/> What is your opinion on this form of publicity and what measures do you anticipate taking?
    </p>
    
    
    <p class="question">
      <strong>6. </strong>	  
	  Software programs themselves are protected by the authors' rights in France, though are not, as in literature, subject to patents. However patents for software continue to be granted by patent offices. This form of control is a constraint to open competition, creates confusion among IT companies, and uncertainty regarding the legal aspects. It is therefore impacting upon innovation within the European business community.<br/> What is your position regarding software patents? In what way do you anticipate preventing the risks that the current system presents?
    </p>
    
    
    </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-09-10 16:29:11 +0200 (Fri, 10 Sep 2010) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
  
  <translator>Daniel Morgan</translator>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
