<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Community support</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Community support</h1>

     <div id="introduction">

    <p>
      Using and configuring software, particcularly for the first time, can be a complex task. Often instructions or assistance are required in order to know how to achieve what you need to with your computer. Sharing skills and knowledge is central to the Free Software philosophy, and as a result the Free Software support community offers a plethora of resources for meeting the needs of users and developers.
    </p>
    
    </div>
    
    <ul>
    
      <li><a href="#manuals">User manuals and help guides</a></li>
      <li><a href="#wikis">Wikis</a></li>
      <li><a href="#forums">Web forums</a></li>
      <li><a href="#chat">Real time chat (IRC)</a></li>
      <li><a href="#mailing-lists">Mailing-lists</a></li>
      <li><a href="#meetings">User group meeings</a></li>
      <li><a href="#email">Email</a></li>
      <li><a href="#remote">Remote control</a></li>
      
    </ul>

    <h2 id="manuals">User manuals and help guides</h2>

<p>Most Free Software applications have manuals on how to use them. Manuals are good for finding out how to use the core features of a particular program. When you expect to be able to perform a task, but can't figure out how, reading the manual is often the best first step. Many software projects take great care to produce accurate and extensive user manuals, and reading them is often the shortest route to a solution.</p>

<p>In desktop applications, like Mozilla Firefox, or OpenOffice, these can usually be found in the 'Help' menu. In text-only terminal applications, these can usually be accessed by typing 'man' (short for manual) followed by the application name, like 'man mv' for the information on the move command. Sometimes manuals are installed separately to the application itself, particularly if the manual is very long. In such cases you either need to install the manual separately on your computer, or alternatively view the manual online, where it is usually also available.</p>

<h2 id="wikis">Wikis</h2>

<p>Wikis are websites which allow lots of different people to change the content of their webpages. They provide a platform for groups to work collaboratively on guides and documentation, and update it with their own knowledge and experience. Wikipedia is an example of a wiki which is used for encyclopedic information; wikis about Free Software projects contain only information about the application that they relate to.</p>

<p>Wikis are similar to manuals, but are often more detailed and more up-to-date. Some wikis have many contibutors are are excellent compendiums of guides and detailed instructions. Others however are not very well maintained, and may contain information which is out-of-date, or inexhaustive. If you need assistance with a Free Software application that has a wiki checking to see if your problem is documented there may well be worthwhile.</p>

<p>Wikis are accessed via a web browser, and appear like any ordinary website. You often need an account in order to add or edit wiki pages. You can also often question and discuss page content using the wiki software itself, and see past revisions of wiki pages.</p>

ubuntu wiki
fedora wiki
inkscape wiki

<h2 id="forums">Web forums</h2>

<p>Forums are a medium of non-real time communication between a large number of different people. With a forum account, visitors can read messages published (or 'posted') by other visitors, and post messages of their own which will be visible to other forum users. They are good for a wide variety of types of question and support, especially questions which are very specific, or may not affect the majority of the application's users. They can be searched for messages relating to the problem that you have, and in cases where this doesn't return a solution, they can be used to post new questions.</p>

<p>Forums are very widely used by Free Software support communities, and can provide an easily acccessible database of structured information about other users' experiences, problems and solutions. Forums are accessible via a web browser, and often contain many thousands of messages.</p>

Forum rules guide
firefox forum
ubuntu forum
openoffice forum
fedora forum


<h2 id="chat">Real time chat (IRC)</h2>

<p>Some Free Software projects, particularly larger ones and GNU/Linux distributions, have chat rooms where users meet to communicate in real time. They use a system called Internet Relay Chat (IRC), and channels (chatrooms) vary greatly in size and nature. Some contain thousands of people at any one time, others contain only a few members, or none at all. Quality and speed of assistancce can also be unpredictable as moderation of real time communication is harder than non-real time methods such as forums, and participants may also be chatting in several other rooms simultaneously, causing their responses to be slow. IRC has a long history, and has developed its own customs and <a href="http://www.ircbeginner.com/ircinfo/etiquette.html">etiquette</a>.</p>

<p>When other research has drawn a blank, or you need help with something that's hard to explain and unlikely to be documented anywhere else, support chat rooms can be invaluable. They can be particularly useful for finding different ways of approaching a problem that you're stuck with, and for getting expert technical attention.</p>

<p>Chat rooms can be accessed in a variety of ways. You can connect to IRC using a web browser with web pages which have the room <a href="http://webchat.freenode.net/">embedded in the page</a>, or using a desktop IRC client such as <a href="http://xchat.org/">XChat</a>, <a href="http://www.pidgin.im/">Pidgin</a>, or <a href="http://quassel-irc.org/">Quassel</a>. Some channels require that you <a href="http://freenode.net/faq.shtml#contents-userregistration">register with the network</a> before connecting. You will need to know the name of the channel that you want to join, such as #linux, and join it by issuing a join command like:</p>

<p class="terminal">/join #linux</p>

<p>Alternatively you may be able to choose the channel from a list inside your IRC client.</p>

<ul>

<li><a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/linux">#linux</a></li>
<li><a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/Openoffice.org">#Openoffice.org</a></li>
<li><a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/ubuntu">#ubuntu</a></li>
<li><a href="irc://irc.debian.org/videolan">#videolan</a></li>
<li><a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/fedora">#fedora</a></li>
<li><a href="irc://irc.debian.org/debian">#debian</a> on irc.debian.org</li>

</ul>

<h2 id="mailing-lists">Mailing-lists</h2>

<p>Mailing-lists are a simple system for sending emails to groups of people interested in a particular subject. They are very widely used by Free Software projects to coordinate different tasks, though they have been replaced by newer support systems such as forums by many applications. Mailing-lists offer a good way to ask a question to a project's entire support community. Some lists are more heavily moderated than others, and they vary in how active and supportive they are.</p>

<p>Typically mailing-lists allow you to register your email address and then send messages to the list email address, like list@project.org. List members can then reply to your query in the form of another message that will be received as an email by all list members, including you. It's best to observe <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Fellows/mk/EmailGuide">etiquette and good practice</a> when messaging a list. As a rule, original, well written questions are more likely to get good responses.</p>

<h2 id="meetings">User group meetings</h2>

<h2 id="email">Email</h2>    

<h2 id="remote">Remote control</h2>
    
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-12-22 13:58:53 +0000 (Wed, 22 Dec 2010) $ $Author: nicoulas $</timestamp>
</html>
