<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

    <html>
      <version>1</version>

      <head>
        <title>Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</title>
      </head>

      <body class="article" microformats="h-entry">
    	  
       <p id="category"><a href="/activities/fla/fiduciary.html">Fiduciary Programme</a></p>

    <h1 class="p-name">Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</h1>

    <div class="e-content">
    </div>

    <!-- <h3>Abstract</h3>

    <p>A Fiduciary License Agreement (FLA) is an agreement between the owner of
    a copyright and a fiduciary. In a slightly similar fashion to copyright collectives, the FLA transfers some of the right of use
    from the copyright owner to the fiduciary. An
    FLA <i>groups</i> the interests of the copyright owners at the
    fiduciary (and not the distribution of the product).</p>

    <p>The usage of a software is governed by a license agreement.
    Free Software projects usually have more than one copyright owner, who work
    collaboratively on that project. If there is a violation of the license agreement, this distributed copyright can cause problems, because the event of a lawsuit all the copyright owners may need to be present.</p>

    <p>The FLA bundles all the rights of the copyright owners into the fiduciary. This fiduciary 
    can then effectively advocate for the interests of the copyright holders in court.</p> -->

    <h2 id="why-would-i-need-fla">Why would I need an FLA?</h2>

    <p>Development of Free Software can follow many patterns. In some cases the entirety of the development is handled by a sole programmer, or by a small group of people. 
    However, the creation and maintenance of software is a complex process and more often than not encompasses many individuals. This also reflects in who owns the rights 
    in software. In the latter case, rights in software are owned jointly by a large number of individuals.</p>

    <p>To tackle this issue, some projects may require a full copyright assignment signed by all contributors. The problem with such assignments is often that 
    they lack check and balances that would protect these contributors from any potential abuse of power from the new copyright holder.</p>

    <p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) was created with that in mind – to concentrate all deciding power within one entity and prevent fragmentation of 
    rights on the one hand, while preventing that single entity from abusing its power on the other.</p>

    <p>The process in an FLA only serves for the transfer of economic rights. So-called moral rights (e.g. authors right to be identified as author) remain with the 
    original author and are inalienable.</p>

    <h2 id="how-does-fla-function">How does an FLA function?</h2>

    <p>An FLA is an agreement between two parties - one party is an individual 
    who has contributed to a particular piece software and therefore is a co-author (<i>Contributor</i>). The other party is an entity - it might be natural person but also company 
    or organisation - who will be the new holder of the rights (<i>Trustee</i>). This way the fragmentation of rights among many contributors can be prevented, as all the rights will be concentrated in one entity instead. Doing this ensures that copyright-relevant modifications (for example, re-licensing) can be done easier, without needing to pin down all contributors.</p>

    <p>The Contributor does not lose all of their rights, just the exclusivity in them. 
    While the Contributor transfers their exclusive rights to the entity responsible for 
    managing, the Trustee reciprocally grants the Contributor a non-exclusive worldwide, royalty-free, 
    perpetual and irrevocable licence to same extent as it was originally 
    transferred from the Contributor.</p>

    <h2 id="what-if-trustee-misuses-the-rights-i-gave-to-them">What if the Trustee misuses the rights I gave to them, e.g. by re-licensing Free Software as a proprietary one?</h2>

    <p>An FLA offers a special clause against this kind of situation, in order to protect the 
    Free Software project against potentially malicious intentions of the Trustee. 
    According to this provision, if the Trustee acts against the principles of Free 
    Software, all granted rights and licences return to their original owners. 
    That means that the Trustee will be effectively prevented from continuing any activity 
    which is contrary to the principles of Free Software.</p>

    <h2 id="who-can-be-trustee">Who can be a Trustee?</h2>

    <p>As was mentioned above, a Trustee can be basically anyone, whether a 
    natural person, company or organisation. But before becoming a Trustee, 
    it is always important to assess all the risks connected with becoming one. 
    Being a Trustee is a responsibility that should not be underestimated.</p>

    <h2 id="how-to-use-fla-for-your-own-project">How can I use an FLA for my own project?</h2>

    <p>The <a href="/activities/fla/FLA.en.pdf">previous version</a> of the FLA was used for the 
    FSFE's <a href="/activities/fla/fiduciary.html">Fiduciary Programme</a>. 
    Unfortunately, the FSFE is no longer accepting new projects under the 
    Fiduciary Programme at the moment. However, you can use our customisable 
    version of the updated FLA-2.0 in order to consolidate your copyright under 
    your own administrative umbrella. It can also be adapted to assign the rights to 
    any other third party.</p>

    <p><strong>If you want to use our updated FLA-2.0 for your own project, please 
    follow these instructions <a href="http://contributoragreements.org/ca-cla-chooser/">here</a>.</strong></p>

    <h2 id="what-has-changed-in-fla-2.0">What has changed in FLA-2.0?</h2>

    <p>The FLA-2.0 was drafted in collaboration with <a href="http://contributoragreements.org/about.html">ContributorAgreements.org</a>
    in order to better reflect the necessities of Contributors, and Trustees 
    as recipients of contributions. As a result of this collaboration, the 
    FLA-2.0 now includes:</p>

    <ul>
    <li>compatibility with more jurisdictions;</li>
    <li>added patent licence for further protection against patent litigation;</li>
    <li>clearer wording;</li>
    <li>narrowing down the list of Free Software licences<a href="#fn1" class="fn" id="fnref1">1</a>;</li>
    <li>more practical licensing options directed towards third parties – including referencing to an external licensing policy.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>All these changes were made in order to strengthen the positions of both 
    developers and the managing entity for the better management of rights within 
    one project.</p>

    <p>You can learn more about the FLA-2.0 by
    <a href="/contact/contact.html">emailing us</a>.</p>

    <h2 id="authors">Authors</h2>

    <p>The FLA-2.0 was written by Matija Šuklje and Catharina Maracke, based on the 
    spirit of the original FLA and the ContributorAgreements.org templates, as 
    well as in consultation with renowned international legal and technical 
    experts. Special thanks should go to Aahit Gaba, Adriaan de Groot, Alessandro 
    Rubini, Anthonia Ghalamkarizadeh, Axel Metzger, Carlo Piana, Florian 
    Idelberger, Hugo Roy, Ingo Klöcker, Jonas Öberg, Jonathan Riddell, Lydia 
    Pintscher, Malcolm Bain, Martin Husovec, Nicola Feltrin, Paul Brown, Pam 
    Chestek, Polina Malaja, Vishesh Handa, as well as the FSFE Legal Network, KDE e.V., 
    DataVerse, and Endocode.</p>

    <p>Initial version of FLA was written by Dr. Axel Metzger and Georg Greve in consultation 
    with renowned international legal and technical experts. Parties ivolved 
    in the evolution of the FLA included RA Dr. Till Jaeger, Carsten Schulz, 
    Prof. Eben Moglen, RA Thorsten Feldmann (LL.M.), Werner Koch, Alessandro Rubini, 
    Reinhard Muller, Shane Coughlan and others.</p>

    <h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>
    		
    		<ol>
    			<li id="fn1"><p>Free Software licence as in identified by the <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html">Free Software Foundation</a> and <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/category">Open Source Initiative</a><a href="#fnref1" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
    		</ol>
    </body>

      
     <sidebar promo="fiduciary-licence-agreement">

     <dynamic-content />     

    <h2>Further information</h2>

    <ul>
    <li><a href="http://contributoragreements.org/ca-cla-chooser/">FLA-2.0 chooser</a></li>
    <li><a href="/activities/fla/FLA.en.pdf">The FSFE's earlier version of the FLA (for archival use only)</a></li>
    </ul>
    </sidebar>
    </html>
    <!--
    Local Variables: ***
    mode: xml ***
    End: ***
    -->
