<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Four Freedoms - FSFE</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p id="category">
      <a href="/freesoftware/basics/">Basics</a>
    </p>

    <h1>Free Software's Four Freedoms</h1>

    <p>
      When you speak about Free Software, you speak about freedom.  And
      more precisely, about the four freedoms to <strong>use</strong>,
      <strong>study</strong>, <strong>share</strong> and <strong>improve</strong> the software.
      Thanks to an analogy to a recipe, it becomes quite clear how these
      freedoms work and why it is important that the source code of a
      program is available to everyone.
    </p>

    <p>
      Let us assume, we want to prepare a soup. In front of us, we have
      the recipe and the ingredients. We are allowed to use the recipe
      for any purpose:  we can cook for dinner at home or at a friend's
      house, in holidays, in a foreign country.  This is what is meant
      by the first freedom: the <strong>unlimited use for any
        purpose</strong>.
    </p>

    <p>
      Now we take the recipe, and we can read what ingredients are
      needed. This is more or less the source code of the software.
      Without the source code, I cannot understand the software, exactly
      as I'm unable to cook the soup without having access to the list
      of ingredients. This is the meaning of the second freedom:  I need
      the <strong>right to study how the program works and understand
        it</strong>.  It's of no use for me to have a packet soup, where
      the composition is unclear and the recipekept secret.
    </p>

    <p>
      Now we can also think it a bit sad to cook alone.  I am allowed to
      invite some friends for dinner, or to bring them my soup when I am
      inivited, or even to give them the recipe so that they can enjoy
      my soup even when I'm absent. And my friends can also copy the
      recipe and give it away to their friends... This is the third
      freedom:  <strong>the right to share copies of the software</strong>
      and hereby to help people.
    </p>

    <p>
      A step forward is to see that even if I find that my soup is good,
      it could taste better. On the recipe there is some advise: to add
      some parsley. But I don't like parsley so I try it with basilic.
      And so it does indeed taste better.  And so I take my own copy and
      modify it: I erase parsley and replace it by basilic. When a
      friend asks me for my recipe, I give him the new, modified
      version. This is the fourth freedom: <strong> the freedom to
        improve the program and to distribute the improvements to
        the program</strong>, so that everybody profits from it. Since
      I'm allowed to do that, my friend's soup also tastes better. Or
      perhaps they will also want to add another ingredient, say some
      cream, and they will modify their own copy. Things have always
      evolved that way, since cooking was invented. People haven't
      cooked at first a turkey filled with orange and red-cabbage with
      cardamom seeds but rather with a roasted deer over a camp fire.
      If noone has the right to reveal how to make things better, we
      would perhaps still be eating roasted deer with raw nark or such
      a thing.  Awful thoughts.
    </p>

    <p>
      It seems evident, that I'm allowed to give away a recipe or a soup
      or even to improve it.  If we carry this logic over software, we
      can easily see that in the case of proprietary software, I'm not
      allowed to copy neither to distribute the software: that's
      illegal.  I'm not allowed to help people.
    </p>

    <p>
      If you think that since you can't program, these freedoms are of
      little use for you, please think this over:  even if you can't do
      it on your own, these freedoms give the possibility to those who
      can program better than you do to solve the problem for you.
      Without the access to the source code however, this remains
      impossible.
    </p>

<h3>Further links</h3>
<p>This explanation also exists in  video format, at the <a href="http://ia331413.us.archive.org/2/items/WOS4-Show_des_freien_Wissens/show.mp4">Free Knowledge Show (Show des freien Wissens)</a> (600 MB, sadly in MP4, in German) 
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-08-09 10:06:27 +0200 (Thu, 09 Jul 2009) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
