<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html>
  <head>
	<meta name="description" content="In legal sense Free Software is owned by developers, foundations and companies, but in a wider sense we all own Free Software, because our freedoms are guaranteed." />
    	<meta name="keywords" content="free software open source foss floss oss gpl copyright owner rights ownership fsfe" />
	<meta name="author-name-1" content="Sam Tuke" />
	<meta name="author-link-1" content="/about/tuke/tuke.html" />
	<meta name="publication-date" content="2011-09-15" />
	  <title>Who owns Free Software?</title>
  </head>
  <body>

	<h1>Who owns Free Software?</h1>
	
	<p>Free Software is owned by many different individuals and organisations. Rights which are typically associated with ownership are available to all Free Software users, thanks to special copyright licensing. These rights are what makes Free Software Free. There are several conceptions of ownership and these relate to Free Software in different ways.</p>

	<h2>Conceptions of ownership</h2>

	<p>Software is an intangible thing. It can be thought of as a set of ideas, and as such, traditional ideas of ownership which affect objects like food and land do not apply to it. Therefore when we talk about intangible things like software, different conceptions of ownership apply. These can typically be split into three categories:</p>

	<ol>
		<li>Copyright</li>
		<li>Patents</li>
		<li>Authorship</li>
	</ol>

	<p>Copyright is a widely used set of laws which grants exclusive rights to creative work such as illustrations, various forms of music, literature, and software. It is a government imposed exclusive monopoly on ideas, and provides a legal and conceptual framework for the private ownership of intangible things.</p>

	<p>Patents are a separate system which relate specifically to industrial processes. Like Copyright, they provide a legal and conceptual framework for the private ownership and restriction of ideas. Patents have very different aims and restrictions to Copyright however, and generally only affect the activities of companies rather than individual citizens.</p>

	<p>Authorship relates to the original creator(s) of an idea, and the rights that those creators have to the idea in a legal and moral sense. Moral rights are legally recognised in most countries, and allow authors to prevent their work from being used in a way which would damage their reputation. Many people also recognise an informal right of authors to be credited as the person who created it, separate to the rights granted by copyright.</p>

	<p>Generally Copyright has the greatest impact on what we can and can't do with software.</p>

	<h2>Legal ownership</h2>

	<p>The copyright relating to software is always owned by someone, be it a group or an individual. The only exception is software that is in the Public Domain, which has no owner and no restrictions on its use<a class="fn" href="#refs">1</a> <a class="fn" href="#refs">2</a>. Most Free Software is not in the Public Domain. Different Free Software projects have different policies concerning who is the copyright owner.</p>

	<p>The <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_kernel">Linux kernel</a>, for example, has thousands of owners, each of whom hold the copyright to the particular code that they have written and contributed to the larger project. The Linux kernel's policy is that contributors retain copyright ownership of their work, but it also requires that all contributions use a Free Software license <a class="fn" href="#refs">3</a>. Other projects take a different approach. OpenOffice, for example, requires that the copyright ownership of all contributions are shared with the company that publishes it (Oracle).  Other projects require copyright to be assigned from the author to the sponsoring organisation. In these cases all rights concerning Copyright are permanently given up by the author to the organisation. This is true of all GNU projects <a class="fn" href="#refs">4</a>), for exmaple.</p>

	<p>Free Software does have legally recognised owners therefore. Who owns the copyright of Free Software is important for legal procedures, such as updating the Free Software license to a new one (eg. from <a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html">GPLv2</a> to <a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html">GPLv3</a>), and ensuring that the license is complied with (and the right to take legal action to protect freedoms when necessary). <strong>Copyright ownership does not affect your rights to Free Software however</strong>.</p>

	<h2>A more important kind of ownership</h2>

	<p>Free Software licenses are unique in that they use copyright law to grant to the public freedoms that are usually reserved for the copyright owner. The 'PL' in 'GPL' stands for 'Public License'; the license hands the most important rights ('<a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">The Four Freedoms</a>') to everybody. Critically, Free Software licenses are also irrevocable. Once software has been published under such a license it will forever be publicly available, and no change of heart, corporate merger, or legal argument can further restrict access to it <a class="fn" href="#refs">5</a>.</p>

	<p>Everybody 'owns' rights to Free Software therefore; we all have inalienable rights to use it as we wish in a way which is traditionally associated with legal copyright ownership. In this wider sense of ownership we all "own" Free Software. Some Free Software advocates refer to Free Software as being "publicly owned". Non-Free software is often referred to as being 'proprietary', which highlights this distinction in who "owns" rights to the software in question.</p>

	<p>Whoever owns the copyright to Free Software always has the most rights to that software. Owners of Free Software choose to use their rights to share their rights as widely as possible. <strong>Therefore in a narrow legal sense Free Software is privately owned by software developers, foundations and companies. In a wider sense however we all own Free Software, because our freedom to use, modify, share, and improve it are guaranteed</strong>.</p>

	<h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2> 

	<ol id="refs"> 

		<li>Though there are no copyright restrictions on works in the public domain, there may be other restrictions, such as restrictions on the distribution of software deemed to post a risk to national security in the United States, or restrictions from related <a href="https://fsfe.org/projects/swpat/">software patents</a>, for example.</li>

		<li>Executable files which are in the Public Domain do not necessarily have their source code similarly available.</li>

		<li>Specifically, the Linux Kernel is licensed as GPLv2.</li>
		
		<li>See the GNU project's <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/why-assign.html">statement</a> on copyright assignment.</li>

		<li>Only a fundamental change in international copyright law could affect the public's rights to Free Software for the worse, and currently this looks likely to occur in the foreseeable future.</li>

	</ol>

  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>linux</tag>
    <tag>kernel</tag>
    <tag>copyright-assignment</tag>
    <tag>copyright</tag>
  </tags>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2011-02-17 09:31:39 +0000 (Thu, 17 Feb 2011) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->