<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - The FSFE's role with the United Nations</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/policy/igf/igf.html">United Nations</a>

    <h1>The FSFE's role with the United Nations</h1>

    <h2>Internet Policy is made at global level</h2>

    <p>
      In the global village called "World Wide Web" there is not much that can
      be limited to only one nation state. Therefore, the nation states consult
      with each other already at the United Nations level. These consultations
      lead to "directives" of the European Union and the nation states are
      largely forced to adopt these decisions as national law.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      FSFE regards it as important to stand up for the preservation of freedom
      not only here in the different states, but also on the international
      level during the decision-making processes.
    </p>
    
    <h2>"World Summit on the Information Society"</h2>
    
    <p>
      Patents, copyright and trademarks (PCT) were important issues at the
      "World Summit on the Information Society". Each can be misused by
      proprietary software and media corporations to threaten digital freedom
      and the exchange of knowledge and access to the information society.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Representing civil society within the German goverment's delegation,
      FSFE's president brought forward important arguments, which would not
      have received this attention otherwise - being able to choose Free
      Software over proprietary software is important culturally and in
      economic terms.
    </p>
    
    <h2>FSFE fights against the digital divide at IGF</h2>
    
    <p>
      The Internet Governance Forum's (IGF) main task is to foster the
      formation of opinion - there are no decisions made in this forum. Rather,
      as many stakeholders as possible, representing economic or social
      interests, should have their say. There is a wide variety of topics.
      Apart from patents, the topics of copyright, trademarks, Open Standards,
      spam, and law enforcement are on the agenda.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Here, FSFE helps again and again with technical knowledge, such as when
      the "rights holders" try to enforce their interests unilaterally against
      the interests of the developing countries. In our opinion, this would not
      only increase the digital divide, it would also be unethical to prevent
      these people, mostly in the southern hemisphere, from learning.
    </p>
    
    <h2>"Intellectual wealth" instead of "Intellectual property"</h2>
    
    <p>
      Until now, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) has
      concluded 23 international agreements on patents, copyright, or
      trademarks on the basis of the public-political dialog. The attitude
      behind these is based on the extension of monopolies and control. We
      object to this attitude.  Together with other civil society
      organisations, we recommend to recreate WIPO to form a World Intellectual
      Wealth Organization (WIWO). This forthcoming global organisation should
      be committed to research and the spread of knowledge. Artificial
      monopolies should only be created when they are of use to society. The
      social use of these should be examined neutrally and cannot be assumed in
      blind faith.
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
      http://fsfe.org/activities/un<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
