<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
	<head>
		<title>FSFE - Software Patents in Europe: Action</title>
	</head>

	<body>
		<p id="category"><a href="/campaigns/swpat/current-issues.html">Software patents in Europe</a></p>
		<h1>Software Patents in Europe - Action</h1>
		
		<div id="introduction">
			<p>
				If, like us you are conviced that software patents are bad and
				that it	is necessary to take action, here are a few pointers to
				what you can do. You will also find on this page all the actions
				that FSFE did, and is doing. Wether you are a hacktivist, a volunteer, a
				journalist, a political figure, or simply a concerned person, you
				can contribute!
			</p>
		</div>
		
		<h2>What FSFE does</h2>
		<p><strong>FIXME</strong></p>
		
		<h2>Past actions</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20101222.html">Letter to German 
					competition authorities - 2010-12-22</a></strong> Free Software Foundation Europe's 
					concerns regarding the acquisition of Novell's patents by CPTN Holdings
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="/campaigns/ipred2/ipred2.html"> 2007-present: IPRED2
					- The Criminalisation Directive</a></strong> A proposal has been made
					by the European Commission to criminalise and increase the penalties and
					invasive investigative measures for patents, copyrights, trademarks, and
					all other laws lumped together by the term "<a
					href="/activities/wipo/iprip.html">Intellectual Property</a>".  It looks like
					patents will now be excluded from this directive, but the legislative
					process is still ongoing and there are many other harmful aspects of this
					directive that must be corrected.
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="/campaigns/gplv3/gplv3.html">2006-2007: Version 3 of
					the GNU GPL</a></strong>: During the 18 month public consultation for
					the drafting of GPLv3, FSFE worked to assist community participation.
					Among other benefits, GPLv3 offers better protection for free software
					developers against patent litigation.  Our licences can only solve a small
					part of the harm of software patents, but they can make free software
					development easy in some ways.
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=49">
					2006-July-12th: Participation in EC hearing</a>:</strong> Ciaran
					O'Riordan represented and made a statement on behalf of FSFE at this
					hearing organised by the European Commission on the future of the patent
					system.
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/fsfe-patstrat-response.html">
					2006-March-31st: Response submitted to EC patent
					questionnaire</a></strong>: FSFE has submitted its response to the
					European Commission's questionnaire titled "On the patent system in
					Europe".
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong>2005-July-6th: Software Patent Directive Dropped</strong>:
					After years of struggle, the European Parliament finally rejected the
					software patent directive with 648 of 680 votes.
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/second-reading-bullets.html">
					2005-July-1st: Bullet Points on the Second Reading</a></strong>: One
					week before the second reading vote by the European Parliament, FSFE sent a
					simplified explanation of the core areas of confusion.  This was delivered
					in six languages which were produced on short notice by the FSFE
					translation team.
				</p>
			</li>

			<li>
				<p>
					<strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/memorandum.html"> 2005-June-28th:
					Karlsruhe Memorandum</a></strong>: The Free Software Foundation Europe
					has published, on June 28th 2005, the Karlsruhe Memorandum against software
					patents. This memorandum collected more than 200 signatures at this year's
					GNU/LinuxTag conference in Karlsruhe.  Citing scientific evidence, the text
					argues that software patents in Europe will hurt jobs and innovation. Among
					the supporters are leaders of some of Europe's biggest trade union groups.
					All MEPs received a copy of this.
				</p>
			</li>
		</ul>
		
		<p>
			From 2004 to 2005 we wrote open letters about software patents addressed
			to <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">all citizens of Europe</a>,
			<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.en.html">the German President Prof.
			Köhler</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.en.html">Fraunhofer
			Gesellschaft (FhG)</a>, 
			<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.en.html">IBM</a>, <a
			href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.en.html">the Dutch prime
			minister</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.en.html">Allianz
			Group</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041101.en.html">Mr
			Barroso</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.en.html">President of
			the European electricity industry Hans Haider</a>, 
			<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050103.en.html">Mr LEE Jong-wook</a>, <a
			href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050207.en.html">Nout Wellink is the Chairman
			of the Board of Directors and President of the International Bank
			Settlements</a>, <a
			href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.en.html">Catherine Parmentier Chief
			Executive Officer of EUROCITIES</a>, <a
			href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.en.html">Mr Provoost president of
			EICTA</a>, 
			<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.en.html">Charlie McCreevy</a>, and
			<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050606.en.html">Josep Borrell Fontelles,
			President of the European Parliament</a>.
		</p> 
		
		<h2>How you can help</h2>
		<p><strong>FIXME</strong></p>
		
		<h2>Tools</h2>
		<p><strong>FIXME</strong></p>
	</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
