<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Software Patents in Europe</title>
    <meta content="Information about software patents - a problem for companies, developers and users." name="description" />
    <meta content="computer implemented inventions software patent law copyright ideas computer program compatibility and interoperability companies software developers users non-free Free Software legal uncertainty costs pay smartphones" />
  </head>

  <body>
  <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>

<div id="introduction">
    <p>

      We are working towards a world where software does <em>what software
        users want it to do</em>. For this, software users must be able to
      participate in the development and distribution of the software.
      Software patents block this goal by adding <em>legal and financial
        risks</em> to software development and distribution and by giving the
      patent holders legal power to completely prohibit software developers
      from using the patented ideas.  
      
    </p>
</div>

	<p><strong>This page is under heavy reworking.</strong></p>

    <p>
      To understand how patents work, it is important to realise that
      they have almost nothing in common with copyright.  While
      copyright is granted on the the work of an author, such as a
      computer program, patents are granted on ideas that could be
      used inside a computer program.  So when thinking of patents,
      think of "symphony combining wind and string instruments" and
      not "Beethoven's 2nd symphony." 
    </p>

    <h2 id="about">A problem for everybody</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>Software patents add legal risks, and therefore costs, to software
      development.</li>

      <li>They specifically inhibit the development of useful software by
      blocking compatibility and interoperability.</li>

      <li>Patents are incompatible with software because software is
      so complex - too many ideas are used for it to be practical to
      count them and check them against existing patents</li>

    </ul> 

  <p><a href="http://en.swpat.org/wiki/All_businesses_are_targets">Software
    patents are a problem for everybody </a>, no matter if big or small
  companies, individual software developers, users, non-free or Free Software.
  </p>

  <ul>

    <li>The <em>companies</em> have to spent more money for their legal department, to
    register patents, to negotiate patent crosslicensing, and to defend
    themselves against patent claims. While for some time software patents are
    a nice tool for big companies to prevent newcomers to compete with them,
    they also have to face companies who only sue others on software patents,
    and never do any software development by themselves. Against them, any
    software company can only loose.</li>

    <li>For <em>software developers</em> software patents mean legal
    uncertainty: whenever you start programming you might violate law. You will
    never be able to find out if you violate a patent. Even if you read a
    software patent you might not realise it covers what you are currently
    implementing.  With patents, we have to pay money to register them. On the
    other hand with copyright, everybody of us even those who just program as a
    hobby can write a program, and afterwards this falls under copyright
    without any additional costs. In fact, software patents can dispossess us
    as they can prevent from using the rights we get from copyright, e.g. to
    distribute the program to others. </li>
    
    <li><em>Users</em> would have to pay for all those costs.  Some people
    estimate that the patent costs for smartphones are about 20% of the actual
    price payed by the customer. </li>

</ul>

    <h2 id="status">The current status</h2>

    <p> In Europe the legislation has decided that software is not patentable.
    But laws are always interpreted by people, and in this case interpretations
    of the law differ. So the European Patents Office (EPO) grants software
    patents by declaring them as "computer implemented inventions". We will
    continue to work with our <a href="/about/fsfnetwork.html">sister
      organisations </a>, our <a href="http://www.ffii.org">associated
      organisation FFII</a>, and others to inform people about the dangers of
    software patents.  We will explain the legislative that they have to make
    the laws more precise so that the patent offices have to act as intended.
    We will continue to get rid of that problem. </p>
    
    <p>The burning topic regarding software patents is the fight against the
    <a href="current/unitary-patent.html">unitary patent</a>.</p>
    
    <p>In the US our sister organisation is working to <a
      href="http://www.fsf.org/blogs/software-patents-after-bilski">build
      awareness to the harm caused by software patents</a> and in New Zealand
    the government understood the problem and <a
      href="http://news.swpat.org/2010/03/new-zealand-govt-against-software-patents/">recommended
      in April 2010 to include computer programs amongst inventions that may not be
      patented</a>. <br /> <strong>FIXME: do we keep these two ?</strong></p>
  
  <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  <ul>
      <li>
          <h3 id="background"><a href="background.html">Background</a></h3>
          <p>
              How do software patents influence very different areas of society and economy?
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
          <h3 id="issues"><a href="current-issues.html">Current issues</a></h3>
          <p>
              What is currently done for and against software patents in Europe?
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
          <h3 id="action"><a href="action.html">Take action!</a></h3>
          <p>
              Tired of waiting and seeing software innovation being harmed? Learn
              about what you can do to help us fight the sotware patents by looking
              at passed actions and current campaigns!
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
          <h3 id="resources"><a href="resources.html">Resources</a></h3>
          <p>
              Check out some of our recommended links and articles on the
              topic of software patent. Basically every bit of information
              that can be useful for your understanding and your actions.
          </p>
      </li>
  </ul>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
