<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>2</version>

  <head>
    <title>Information for Translators</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article">
    <p id="category"><a href="/contribute/">Contribute</a></p>
    <h1>Translations</h1>

    <p id="introduction" class="p-summary">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe is an international organisation. Our goal is to spread the word about Free Software!
      To achieve this, we want to share our information and work for software freedom in as many languages as possible. Do you want to help us?
    </p>
    
  <!-- Function below: div class="toc float-right visible-xs visible-sm, toc is the table of content, float right applies as CSS rule to float the element to the right side, visible-xs and visible-sm
  ensure that the toc is visible on small devices only otherwise on larger devices (e.g. Computer Desktop) it remains hidden. Be careful to consider where you want the toc to appear on your webpage 
  while using small devices. This is the point where you need to paste this function. Also make sure to include the code below for the sidebar to hide the toc there on small devices (see bottom of this file) 
  and for more information search for bootstrap with XHTML. -->
<!-- Creating the TOC: make sure to have the anchors linked with <a href="#ANCHOR">TEXT FOR ANCHOR</a> and to also include those anchors with the id function for the correct heading or paragraph-->

	<div class="toc float-right visible-xs visible-sm">
	 <p class="head">
          <a href="#translators-team">Translating for software freedom</a>
         </p> <!-- class="head" suggests that this paragraph is styled as a heading or section title using CSS--> 
    <ul style="white-space: nowrap;">
	   <li><a href="#translating">All you need to know for translators</a></li>
	   <li><a href="#weblate">Join our weblate project</a></li>
	 </ul>
		<p class="head"><a href="#proofreading">All you need to know for proofreaders</a></p>
      <p class="head"><a href="resources">Resources</a></p>
      <p class="head"><a href="translation-team">Translation Coordinators</a></p>
</div>

    <p>The FSFE's translators team is open to everybody and all contributions are welcome!</p> 
    <p>No matter if it is only a phrase or a small page, we are grateful for
    your commitment to spread the word about Free Software. <strong>With your 
    help we can enable more people to learn about Free Software</strong>.</p>
    
    <blockquote>Translating and proofreading is a precious contribution to the work 
    of the FSFE and an excellent chance to spontaneously take part in 
    the <a href="/activities/" >activities of the FSFE</a>.</blockquote>
    
   
    <h2 id="translators-team">Translating for software freedom</h2>
    
   <!-- <p>There are <em>different</em> translation processes used depending on the material. 
    </p>
    -->
        
   <h3 id="translating">All you need to know for translators:</h3>
   
    <p>
      Take a look at our short video and follow the 5 steps described in 
      it or follow the guide below. For any question feel free to reach 
      out to <email mailto="yes">contact@fsfe.org</email>.
      </p>
      
          <figure>
<iframe title="How to use FSFE's webpreview for translations" width="560" height="315" 
src="https://media.fsfe.org/videos/embed/2Hx5degpF8oKuuWTRSaBEo?loop=1&amp;autoplay=1" 
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="" sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-popups allow-forms"></iframe>
</figure>

<h4> Step by step! </h4>
    <ul>
    <li>For <strong>printed material</strong> like stickers or flyers: send an email to <a 
        href="https://lists.fsfe.org/postorius/lists/translators.lists.fsfe.org">translators 
        mailing list</a>. Our coordinators will get in contact wiht you. 
        <ul>
        <li>All resources can be found on our
        <a href="https://download.fsfe.org/" >download server</a>.</li>
        </ul>
        </li>
    <li>For <strong>webpages</strong>: find a page you want to translate. 
     <ul>
      <li>You can check our <a 
       href="https://status.fsfe.org/translations/">overview of pages</a>.</li>
      <li> Or respond to a translation request that is sent to the <a 
        href="https://lists.fsfe.org/postorius/lists/translators.lists.fsfe.org">translators 
        mailing list</a>.</li>
      <li>You can also pick a page from <a 
          href="/index.html">fsfe.org</a> that you would like to translate.</li> 
     </ul>
    <ol>
     <li>Copy the URL to our <a href="https://webpreview.fsfe.org/">
    webpreview tool</a>.
      <blockquote>If it is a page from the <a 
       href="https://status.fsfe.org/translations/">overview</a> you can 
       click on the linked number in the column "Original version".</blockquote>
    </li>
    
   <li>Click on "Proofread/Translate".</li>
  
   <li>Choose <strong>Translate</strong> and the language into which you want to translate. 
     If your native language is available you can now start by creating an automatic 
     translation by clicking on "Automatically translate".
      <strong>Please note, that automatic translations require a careful review.</strong>
   </li>
  
   <li>Select a section of text you want to change by clicking on it and typing your replacement.</li>
   
   <li>Send your translation to the translators team. 
    <ul>
     <ol>
        <li>Right click on the pad number.</li>
        <li>Click on "Copy link". This copies the webpreview link of the pad.</li>
        <li>Send the link with your translation to: <email mailto="yes">translators@lists.fsfe.org</email></li>
     </ol>
    <li> Or you can download / export your work to a xhtml file by 
       clicking on "Export X[HT]ML" and send this file to <email mailto="yes">translators@lists.fsfe.org</email></li>
   </ul>
  </li>
    </ol>
    </li>
    </ul>
    
       <h3 id="weblate">Join our weblate project</h3>
    
    <p>Weblate is a translation tool that is developed by the <a 
    href="https://weblate.org/">weblate organisation</a>. In this handy tool you 
    will find different "components" that are ready for 
    you to translate. For example we provide the <a 
    href="https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/fsfe/ada-zangemann/">Ada 
    &amp; Zangemann</a> children book, the <a 
    href="https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/fsfe/reuse-tool/">REUSE 
    tool</a> and the <a 
    href="https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/fsfe/refund-4-freedom/">Refund 
    4 Freedom</a> project as such components. Take a look and leave a translation!
    </p>
    
 <figure>
<iframe title="Help the FSFE to spread the word of Free Software - How to use weblate?" width="560" height="315" 
src="https://media.fsfe.org/videos/embed/9jEdTukxLCVhK3NBdbinz7?loop=1&amp;autoplay=1" 
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="" sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-popups allow-forms"></iframe>
          </figure>
          
    <h4>Step by step!</h4>
    <ol>
<li>Go to the FSFE's <a href="/translators/weblate">Weblate project</a>.</li> 
<li>Create an account with weblate, which is free of charge and Free Software.</li>
<li>
Choose a component in the FSFE's <a href="/translators/weblate">Weblate 
project</a> which you would like to translate.
</li>
<li>Start your translation!</li>
<li>Either click on <strong>Browse</strong> or <strong>Translate</strong>.</li>
<li>All that is left for you to do is to enter your suggested translation.</li>
    </ol>
     
 <!--   <p>
    For each created translation the FSFE's project maintainers will 
    receive an information and will automatically merge the contribution 
    in the git repository.
    </p>
    -->
<blockquote>
In the following months we will continuously update the weblate project 
and add more components from <a href="/index.html">fsfe.org</a>. Thank 
you for your understanding and
patience. 
</blockquote>
    
 <h2 id="proofreading">All you need to know for proofreaders:</h2>
      <p>If you want to proofread the FSFE's material please join
      our <a 
      href="https://lists.fsfe.org/postorius/lists/translators.lists.fsfe.org">translators 
    mailing list</a>.</p>
    
    <h4>Step by step!</h4>
<ol>
   
    <li>Find a page you want to proofread.
     <ul>
      <li>You can pick a page from <a href="/index.html">fsfe.org</a> that you would like to proofread.</li> 
      <li>Or respond to a proofreading request that is sent to the <a 
    href="https://lists.fsfe.org/postorius/lists/translators.lists.fsfe.org">translators 
    mailing list</a>.</li>
    </ul> 
    </li>
     
     <li>Copy the URL to our <a href="https://webpreview.fsfe.org/">
    webpreview tool</a>.</li>
    
<li>Click on "Proofread/Translate".</li>
<li>Choose <strong>Proofread</strong> and you can continue from there.</li>
<li>Select a section of text you want to change by clicking on it and typing your replacement.</li>
  <li>Send your proofread text to the translators team. 
   <ul>
    <ol>
      <li>Right click on the pad number.</li>
      <li>Click on "Copy link". This copies the webpreview link of the pad.</li>
      <li>Send the link with your proofread text to: <email mailto="yes">translators@lists.fsfe.org</email></li>
    </ol>
    <li> Or you can download / export your work to a xhtml file by 
      clicking on "Export X[HT]ML" and send this file to <email mailto="yes">translators@lists.fsfe.org</email></li>
   </ul>
  </li>
</ol>

    
      
    <h2 id="resources">Resources</h2>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="https://docs.fsfe.org/en/techdocs/mainpage/translations">Translation Documentation</a>, 
        here you can find further information on how to translate with the FSFE.</li>
      <li><a href="/contribute/translators/wordlist.html">Wordlist</a>, lists words and expressions commonly used in the FSFE.</li>
      <li><a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/postorius/lists/translators.lists.fsfe.org">Mailing list</a>, coordination and help on translation efforts.</li>
      <li><a href="https://media.fsfe.org/w/2Hx5degpF8oKuuWTRSaBEo?loop=1&amp;autoplay=1">How to use FSFE's webpreview for translations</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://status.fsfe.org/translations.html">Overview of translation</a>.</li>
      <li><a href="/contribute/web/web.html"> Join our web team</a> for a better understanding of our website system</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 id="translation-team">Translation Coordinators</h2>
    
    <p>
    	If you require more information regarding our translation activities, you are welcome to contact the
    	translation coordinators, by sending an email to <email mailto="yes">contact@fsfe.org</email>
    </p>

    <div id="team" class="section grid-100">
    	<translation-coordinators-list />
    </div>
  </body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe">

<h2>Content</h2>
 <div class="hidden-xs hidden-sm">
   <!-- hidden-xs and hidden-sm hides the code on small devices like phones, tablets, etc.-->
    <p class="head"><a href="#translators-team">Translating for software freedom</a></p> <!-- class="head" suggests that this paragraph is styled as a heading or section title using CSS--> 
    <ul style="white-space: nowrap;">
      <li><a href="#translating">All you need to know for translators</a></li>
      <li><a href="#weblate">Join our weblate project</a></li>
   </ul>
		<p class="head"><a href="#proofreading">All you need to know for proofreaders</a></p>
      <p class="head"><a href="resources">Resources</a></p>
      <p class="head"><a href="translation-team">Translation Coordinators</a></p>
  </div>

</sidebar>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

