<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Information for Translators - Word List</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Word List for Translations</h1>

    <h2>Special Terms And Their Translations</h2>

    <p>
      We try to use fixed translations the following English terms to ensure a
      consistent language:
    </p>

    <p>
      (The column for the translated term is empty in this page for obvious
      reasons, please refer to a translation of this page to see the word lists
      for the respective language.)
    </p>

    <table class="table table-bordered table-condensed table-responsive">
      <tr>
        <th>English</th>
        <th>foreign language</th>
        <th>remark</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>associate organisation</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>See <a href="/about/associates/associates.html">the associates page</a> for details.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>compulsory licensing</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Compulsory Routers</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>contributor</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>(sponsoring level)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>coordinator</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>(the coordinator of a project or a country team of the FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>copyright</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>deputy coordinator</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>(the second coordinator of a project or a country team of the FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Digital Restrictions Management (DRM)</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Directorate-General (DG)</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>(the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directorate-General">governmental
          department</a> in the European Union)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>editor (your editor)</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>When the editor/author of the newsletter refers to him/herself</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Edu-Team // Education Team</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>Free Software in Education</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Executive Director</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>See the <a href="/about/legal/Constitution.en.pdf">constitution</a> for details.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Commission</td>
        <td> </td>
      <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Council</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Court</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Patent Office</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>executive committee</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>For details, see the <a href="/about/legal/Constitution.en.pdf">template constitution for chapters</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>extended executive committee</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>For details, see the <a href="/about/legal/Constitution.en.pdf">template constitution for chapters</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>fee</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>Often used in connection with standards or patents. The word translates differently depending on the context in some languages (e.g. <a href="wordlist.fr.html">French</a>).</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Free Software</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Free Software community</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>FSFE / FSF Europe / Free Software Foundation Europe</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>"FSF Europe" is no longer used. Depending on the context we use
        "FSFE" or "Free Software Foundation Europe"</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>General Assembly (GA)</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>The highest organ in the FSFE.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>GNU Project</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>"intellectual property"</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>always put in quotes!</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Legal Affairs Committee / committee on legal affairs</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>local groups</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>mailing list</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>minor interpellation</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>network termination point</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
	    </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>non-profit</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>PDF reader</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>Software to view pdf-files</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>President of the FSFE</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Promotion material</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Public procurement</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>regulation</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>sister organisation</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>smart card</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>(the Fellowship card) Please avoid the term "crypto card" because
        of trademark issues!</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>software patent</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Supporter</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>trademark</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>UN World Summit on Information Society</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>volunteer</td>
        <td> </td>
        <td>(people who work in their spare time for FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>


    <h2>Boilerplate Texts</h2>


		<h3>For the Free Software Foundation Europe</h3>


		<h4>Press Release Footer</h4>

    <!-- please have a look at https://fsfe.org/about/mission for translations -->

    <pre>
      About the Free Software Foundation Europe 

      Free Software Foundation Europe is a charity that empowers users to
      control technology. Software is deeply involved in all aspects of our
      lives; and it is important that this technology empowers rather than
      restricts us. Free Software gives everybody the rights to use, understand,
      adapt, and share software. These rights help support other fundamental
      freedoms like freedom of speech, press, and privacy.

      The FSFE helps individuals and organisations to understand how Free
      Software contributes to freedom, transparency, and self-determination. It
      enhances users' rights by abolishing barriers to Free Software adoption,
      encourages people to use and develop Free Software, and provides resources
       to enable everyone to further promote Free Software in Europe.

      https://fsfe.org
    </pre>

  </body>
</html><!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
