<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Documents</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h1>Documents</h1>
    </div>

<p>Documents, information, philosophy and other sources of information
about Free Software, the FSF Europe and related issues.</p>

<h2>Table of Contents</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a HREF="#Initiatives" NAME="TOCInitiatives">Initiatives</a></li>
  <li><a HREF="#EC" NAME="TOCEC">European Commission</a></li>
  <li><a HREF="#Political" NAME="TOCPolitical">Political</a></li>
  <li><a HREF="#Basics" NAME="TOCBasics">Basics of Free Software</a></li>
  <li><a HREF="#Reports" NAME="TOCReports">Reports</a></li>
  <li><a HREF="#Historic" NAME="TOCHistoric">Historic</a></li>
  <li><a HREF="#FurtherReading" NAME="TOCFurtherReading">Further Reading</a></li>
</ul>


<h3><a name="Initiatives"></a>Initiatives</h3>
<p>Initiatives by the FSF Europe
<ul>

    <li><a href="whyfs.en.html">We speak about Free Software</a>:
    Speaking of Free Software offers many advantages.</li>

</ul>
</p>


<h3><a name="EC"></a>European Commission</h3>
<p>Documents in the European Commission context.
<ul>

<li> <a href="/documents/fp6/fp6.html">6th European Commission
Framework Programme</a><br />
Documents by the FSF Europe in the context of the 6th framework
programme of the European Commission:
<ul>
<li><a href="/documents/fp6/recommendation.html">Recommendation by the
FSF Europe and supporting parties for the 6th framework
programme</a></li>
<li><a href="/documents/fp6/focal.html">EOI: FOCAL - FOcussing
Competence for Advantages of Liberty</a></li>
<li><a href="/documents/fp6/lafis.html">EOI: LAFIS - LAying the
Foundations for the Information Society</a></li>
</ul></li>

<li><a href="/documents/eur5greve.html"><b>Free Software in Europe</b>
- European perspectives and work of the FSF Europe</a>: An article
explaining the large-scale beneficial aspects of Free Software in
multiple areas and how Europe and the European countries can benefit
from Free Software. (<a
href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/pdf/europe/spring2003/EU5%20Georg%20Gree%20ATL-replace.pdf">Published</a>
in the <a
href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/spring2003/eu_spring2003_contents.shtml">Spring
2003</a> issue of the <a
href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/europe_intro.shtml">Public
Service Review - European Union</a> with a foreword by Romano Prodi)
</li>

</ul>
</p>


<h3><a name="Political"></a>Political</h3>
<p>Articles and letters by the FSF Europe addressing local governments
and such.
<ul>
    <li><a href="/documents/mit-it/commissione-meo-presentazione.html">10.7.2003</a>:
    FSF Europe hearing by the Italian Government's Commission on free
    software in the public administration.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/de/news/2002/article-25.04.2002.html">25.4.2002</a>:
    Position of the FSF Europe about software patents on request of
    the German Ministry of Justice.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/de/news/2001/article-13.12.2001.html">13.12.2001</a>:
    "Free Software for the German Goverment" open letter to
    Mr. Küster, member of German parliament.
    </li>

</ul>
</p>


<h3><a name="Basics"></a>Basics of Free Software</h3>
<p>Some basic information about Free Software, the GNU Project and the
Free Software Foundation.
<ul>

<li><a href="whyweexist.html">Why do we exist?</a>: A brief summary
of the reasons for the FSF Europe and an introduction into its
goals.</li>

<li><a href="freesoftware.html">What is Free Software?</a>: A short
lexicon-like text explaining what Free Software is.</li>

<li><a href="whatwedo.html">What do we do?</a>: A brief summary of
what the FSF Europe does to achieve its goals.</li>

<li><a href="gnuproject.html">What is the GNU Project?</a>: A short
lexicon-like text explaining what the GNU-Project is.</li>

</ul>
</p>

<h3><a name="Reports"></a>Reports</h3>
<p>Reports by the FSF Europe and its working groups about their
activites and results.
<ul>

<li><a href="/documents/reports/es-2003.html">Two year executive
summary</a> Report about the first two years of work of the FSF Europe
for the 2003 general assembly.</li>

</ul>
</p>


<h3><a name="Historic"></a>Historic documents</h3>
<p>Documents of mostly historic interest that are kept for reference
and those who are interested; may contain information that is largely
outdated.
<ul>

<li><p><a href="preamble.html">Preamble to the Constitution of the
Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
Possibly interesting to learn more about Free Software - if you wish
to learn more about the FSF Europe in general, the <a
href="/about/">About</a> section is your friend.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="doi.html">Declaration of Intent - FSF Europe</a><br />
The first public announcement for the Free Software Foundation Europe
with the goal to inform about the idea and get in touch with people
from other countries willing to participate.</p></li>

</ul>
</p>

<h3><a name="FurtherReading"></a>Further reading</h3>

<p>More information about Free Software is available at
<ul>

<li>Philosophy of the GNU Project<br />
<code><a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/</a></code></li>

<li>Brave GNU World <br />
(<code><a href="/projects/bgw/">http://fsfeurope.org/projects/bgw/</a></code>)<br />
<code><a href="http://brave-gnu-world.org">http://brave-gnu-world.org</a></code><br /></li>

</ul>
</p>

</div><!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
