<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Documents</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h1>Documents</h1>
    </div>

<p>Documents, information, philosophy and other sources of information
about Free Software, the FSF Europe and related issues.</p>

<h2>Table of Contents</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="#Initiatives" name="TOCInitiatives">Initiatives</a></li>
  <li><a href="#EC" name="TOCEC">European Commission</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Political" name="TOCPolitical">Political</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Basics" name="TOCBasics">Basics of Free Software</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Reports" name="TOCReports">Reports</a></li>
  <li><a href="#Historic" name="TOCHistoric">Historic</a></li>
  <li><a href="#FurtherReading" name="TOCFurtherReading">Further Reading</a></li>
</ul>


<h3><a name="Initiatives"></a>Initiatives</h3>
<p>Initiatives by the FSF Europe</p>
<ul>

    <li><a href="whyfs.html">We speak about Free Software</a>:
    Speaking of Free Software offers many advantages.</li>
    
    <li>Towards a <a href="wiwo.en.html">"World Intellectual Wealth
        Organisation"</a>. Supporting the Geneva Decleration</li>

</ul>


<h3><a name="EC"></a>European Commission</h3>
<p>Documents in the European Commission context.</p>
<ul>

<li> <a href="/documents/fp6/fp6.html">6th European Commission
Framework Programme</a><br />
Documents by the FSF Europe in the context of the 6th framework
programme of the European Commission:
<ul>
<li><a href="/documents/fp6/recommendation.html">Recommendation by the
FSF Europe and supporting parties for the 6th framework
programme</a></li>
<li><a href="/documents/fp6/focal.html">EOI: FOCAL - FOcussing
Competence for Advantages of Liberty</a></li>
<li><a href="/documents/fp6/lafis.html">EOI: LAFIS - LAying the
Foundations for the Information Society</a></li>
</ul></li>

<li><a href="/documents/eur5greve.html"><b>Free Software in Europe</b>
- European perspectives and work of the FSF Europe</a>: An article
explaining the large-scale beneficial aspects of Free Software in
multiple areas and how Europe and the European countries can benefit
from Free Software. (<a
href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/pdf/europe/spring2003/EU5%20Georg%20Gree%20ATL-replace.pdf">Published</a>
in the <a
href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/spring2003/eu_spring2003_contents.asp">Spring
2003</a> issue of the <a
href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/europe_intro.shtml">Public
Service Review - European Union</a> with a foreword by Romano Prodi)
</li>

</ul>


<h3><a name="Political"></a>Political</h3>
<p>Essays, articles, letters and similar documents.</p>
<ul>
    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050103.html">03.01.2005</a>:
      Open letter to Mr. Lee, General Secretary of the World Health
      Organisation (WHO) by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about
      software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041206.html">06.12.2004</a>:
      Open letter to Mr. Haider, President of the Union of the Electricity
      Industry - EURELECTRIC by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
      Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>
    
    <li>
      <a href="/de/news/2004/navigator-20041129.html">29.11.2004</a>:
      Handelsblatt Navigator "Schweigen ist Geld wert" by <a
          href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about the MS antitrust case.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041101.html">01.11.2004</a>:
      Open letter to Mr. Barroso by
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041004.html">04.10.2004</a>:
      Open letter to Mr. Diekmann, CEO of Allianz Group by
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/de/news/2004/navigator-20040930.html">30.09.2004</a>:
      Handelsblatt Navigator "Dichtung und Wahrheit" by Jens Koenen about the
      MS antitrust case.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/de/news/2004/navigator-20040917.html">17.09.2004</a>:
      Handelsblatt Navigator "Ende und Anfang" by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
          Greve</a> about Digital Restriction Management (DRM).
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040906.html">06.09.2004:</a>:
      Open letter to the Dutch Prime Minister Dr. Balkenende by
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040802.html">02.08.2004</a>:
      Open letter to Dr. Wladawsky-Berger of IBM by
      <a href="/about/maffulli/">Stefano Maffulli</a> and
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040706.html">06.07.2004</a>:
      Open letter to Prof. Bullinger of Fraunhofer Gesellschaft by
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/de/news/2004/navigator-20040624.html">24.06.2004</a>:
      Handelsblatt Navigator "Langsame Erosion" by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
          Greve</a> about monopolies.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040531.html">31.05.2004</a>:
      Open letter to Prof. Köhler, designatet German President by
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li>
      <a href="/de/news/2004/navigator-20040521.html">21.05.2004</a>:
      Handelsblatt Navigator "Monopole auf Ideen" by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
          Greve</a> about software patents.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040510.html">10.05.2004</a>:
    Open letter to all citizens of Europe by <a
    href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> (<a href="/">FSFE</a>) and
    Hartmut Pilch (<a href="http://www.ffii.org">FFII</a>, <a
    href="/associates/">FSFE associate</a>), addressing the dangers of
    software patents for Europe.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/documents/cie.html">15.04.2004</a>: A comment by
    Alessandro Rubini about the questions raised by the adoption of
    national electronic ID Cards for e-government purposes.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/documents/iprip.html">09.02.2004</a>:
    On "Intellectual Property" and Indigenous Peoples -- an essay 
    by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> about questions raised
    for Indigenous Peoples by the "intellectual property" ideology.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/projects/wsis/cs-benchmarks.html">14.11.2003</a>:
    Civil Society Essential Benchmarks for the <a
    href="/projects/wsis/">World Summit on the Information Society</a>
    (WSIS).</li>

    <li><a href="/projects/wsis/issues.html">04.11.2003</a>: Fighting
    intellectual poverty -- article by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
    Greve</a> for a publication of the <a
    href="http://www.boell.de">Heinrich Böll Foundation</a> on the <a
    href="/projects/wsis/">World Summit on the Information Society</a>
    (WSIS).</li>

    <li><a href="/projects/wsis/ps-20030923.html">23.9.2003</a> Civil Society
    Statement for World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) United 
    Nations (UN) Plenary -- <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
    C.F. Greve</a> on behalf of Patents, Copyright, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group</li>

    <li><a href="/documents/mit-it/commissione-meo-presentazione.html">10.07.2003</a>:
    FSF Europe hearing by the Italian Government's Commission on free
    software in the public administration.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/de/news/2002/article-25.04.2002.html">25.04.2002</a>:
    Position of the FSF Europe about software patents on request of
    the German Ministry of Justice.
    </li>

    <li><a href="/de/news/2001/article-13.12.2001.html">13.12.2001</a>:
    "Free Software for the German Goverment" open letter to
    Mr. Küster, member of German parliament.
    </li>

</ul>


<h3><a name="Basics"></a>Basics of Free Software</h3>
<p>Some basic information about Free Software, the GNU Project and the
Free Software Foundation.</p>
<ul>

<li><a href="/projects/wsis/fs.html">Free Software and WSIS</a>: Civil
Society reference paper on Free Software and its impact on the World
Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).</li>

<li><a href="whyweexist.html">Why do we exist?</a>: A brief summary
of the reasons for the FSF Europe and an introduction into its
goals.</li>

<li><a href="freesoftware.html">What is Free Software?</a>: A short
lexicon-like text explaining what Free Software is.</li>

<li><a href="whatwedo.html">What do we do?</a>: A brief summary of
what the FSF Europe does to achieve its goals.</li>

<li><a href="gnuproject.html">What is the GNU Project?</a>: A short
lexicon-like text explaining what the GNU-Project is.</li>

</ul>

<h3><a name="Reports"></a>Reports</h3>
<p>Reports by the FSF Europe and its working groups about their
activites and results.</p>
<ul>

<li><a href="/documents/reports/es-2003.html">Two year executive
summary</a> Report about the first two years of work of the FSF Europe
for the 2003 general assembly.</li>

</ul>

<p>
For more recent information about our activities, please also read our
<a href="/news/newsletter.html">monthly newsletter</a>.
</p>


<h3><a name="Interviews"></a>Interviews</h3>
<p>FSF Europe interviews</p>
<ul>

<li><a href="/de/news/2004/cw-interview.html">Interview by Stefan
Krempl</a> with Georg Greve for Swiss Computerworld Magazine 4/2003:
"Software als cultural good"</li>
</ul>

<h3><a name="Historic"></a>Historic documents</h3>
<p>Documents of mostly historic interest that are kept for reference
and those who are interested; may contain information that is largely
outdated.</p>
<ul>

<li><p><a href="preamble.html">Preamble to the Constitution of the
Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
Possibly interesting to learn more about Free Software - if you wish
to learn more about the FSF Europe in general, the <a
href="/about/">About</a> section is your friend.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="doi.html">Declaration of Intent - FSF Europe</a><br />
The first public announcement for the Free Software Foundation Europe
with the goal to inform about the idea and get in touch with people
from other countries willing to participate.</p></li>

</ul>

<h3><a name="FurtherReading"></a>Further reading</h3>

<p>More information about Free Software is available at</p>
<ul>

<li>Philosophy of the GNU Project<br />
<code><a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/</a></code></li>

<li>Brave GNU World <br />
(<code><a href="/projects/bgw/">http://fsfeurope.org/projects/bgw/</a></code>)<br />
<code><a href="http://brave-gnu-world.org">http://brave-gnu-world.org</a></code><br /></li>

</ul>

</div><!-- The footer will be inserted here -->
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
