<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Declaration of Intent</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
	English |
        <a href="doi.fr.html">Français</a>
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h2>Declaration of Intent - Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>
     Georg C. F. Greve &lt;<a href="mailto:greve@gnu.org">greve@gnu.org</a>&gt;
     <br/>22 Nov 2000<br/>
    </div>
    <p>
      A group of people have begun working on the concept of a "Free
      Software Foundation Europe" which will essentially be a sister
      organization of the Free Software Foundation founded by Richard
      M. Stallman.
    </p>
    <p>
      It has become evident that the FSF in the U.S., being in a totally
      different time and culture zone, can hardly keep in touch with the
      strong developments and currents in European Free Software. Legally
      independent of the FSF in America it will seek to grant an
      organizational backbone for Free Software in Europe - especially for
      (although not limited to) the GNU Project. Furthermore it will provide
      the necessary local organization for political work and distribution of
      funds.
    </p>
    <p>In achieving the goals</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
	<p>
	  Political mouthpiece for Free Software &amp; the GNU Project
	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
	<p>Providing an organizational backbone</p>
      </li>
      <li><p>Raising &amp; Distribution of funds</p></li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      we perceive it as absolutely paramount to maintain the true spirit and
      essence of Free Software.
    </p>
    <p>
      We also would like to avoid creating another splinter group in the
      movement. For this reason we are in contact with Richard M. Stallman as
      the goal is to become the acknowledged "European sister
      organization" of the FSF - this will also allow Europeans to make
      tax-deductible donations to "the" FSF.
    </p>
    <p>
      Being the official sister organization brings the responsibility to
      preserve its philosophical standpoints and values. In our eyes it is the
      lastingness of all decisions and workings of the FSF that makes it so
      special; so we will apply the same long-term considerations in all our
      steps.
    </p>
    <p>
      As the recent past has shown, it is quite quite easy to stray off the
      path and lose track of those long-term goals. Hence it is crucial only
      to have members with a firm grasp on the movement, its origins and the
      goals.
    </p>
    <p>
      We felt that this responsibility made it necessary to become aware of
      the possible traps and pitfalls along the way before making our plans
      public. After over a year of discussions and building trust into each
      others integrity, we feel that it is time to bring those plans to
      life.
    </p>
    <p>So far the core consists of</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
	<p>
	  Georg C. F. Greve
	  &lt;<a href="mailto:greve@gnu.org">greve@gnu.org</a>&gt;
	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
	<p>
	  Bernhard Reiter &lt;<a href="mailto:bernhard@intevation.de">bernhard@intevation.de</a>&gt;
	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
	<p>
	  Werner Koch &lt;<a href="mailto:wk@gnupg.org">wk@gnupg.org</a>&gt;
	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
	<p>
	  Peter Gerwinski &lt;<a href="peter@gerwinski.de">peter@gerwinski.de</a>&gt;
	</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      and we will set up a "FSF Europe" organization in Germany as a starting
      point. From there on we will follow a step-by-step to other European
      countries with the final plan to have a strong and sound structure in
      Europe that will work towards the goals of Free Software.
    </p>
    <p>
      We will be looking for other people with a firm GNU and Free Software
      awareness especially in France, the U.K. and Spain as our first step of
      becoming truly European. If you feel you should be contacted and we
      haven't done so already, don't despair. You might consider getting in
      touch with us, but please bear in mind that being part of this
      organization requires a relatively high level of commitment and
      establishing the necessary level of trust into each other is a slow
      process.
    </p>
    <p>
      We intend to do things right as a flawed approach might reap hideous
      results. If you want to help us, feel free to get in touch with us at
    </p>
    <p>
      &lt;<a href="team@fsfeurope.org">team@fsfeurope.org</a>&gt;
    </p>
    <p>
      or subscribe to the general discussion list
    </p>
    <p>
      &lt;<a href="mailto:discussion@fsfeurope.org">discussion@fsfeurope.org</a>
      >.
    </p>
    <p>
      If you just want to be kept update of the progress, feel free to
      subscribe to the announcement-only mailing list
    </p>
    <p>
      &lt;<a href="announce@fsfeurope.org">announce@fsfeurope.org"</a>&gt;
    </p>
    <p>
      You can subscribe to the mailing lists by sending mail to
    </p>
    <p>
      [name]-request@fsfeurope.org
    </p>
    <p>
      with "subscribe" in the subject or by using the web
      interface at
    </p>
    <p>
      <a href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org">http://mailman.fsfeurope.org</a>.
    </p>
<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
