<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - What is Free Software?</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
        <a href="freesoftware.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
	English
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h2>What is Free Software?</h2>
     Georg C. F. Greve &lt;<a href="mailto:greve@gnu.org">greve@gnu.org</a>&gt;
     <br/>
    </div>
    <p>
      The Philosophy of Free Software goes back to the idea of freely
      exchanging knowledge and thoughts that can traditionally be found in
      scientific fields. Just like ideas, software are non-tangible and can be
      copied without loss. Passing them on is rather the basis of an
      evolutionary process which fuels the development of thoughts.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the early eighties, Richard M. Stallman was the first to succeed in
      formalizing this for software in form of four freedoms.
    </p>
    <dl>
	<dt><b>0. freedom:</b></dt>
	<dd>
	  <p>
	    The freedom to run the program, for any purpose.
	  </p>
	</dd>
	<dt><b>1. freedom:</b></dt>
	<dd>
	  <p>
	    The freedom to study how the program works, and adapt it to your
	    needs.
	  </p>
	</dd>
	<dt><b>2. freedom:</b></dt>
	<dd>
	  <p>The freedom to redistribute copies.</p>
      </dd>
	<dt><b>3. freedom:</b></dt>
	<dd>
	  <p>
	    The freedom to improve the program, and release your improvements
	    to the public, so that the whole community benefits.
	  </p>
	</dd>
    </dl>
    <p>
      Software following these four principles is called "Free Software."
    </p>
    <p>
      To support and realize this, Richard M. Stallman created the "Free
      Software Foundation" in 1984 and started the GNU-Project. The
      license of the GNU-Project, the GNU General Public License not only
      grants the four freedoms described above, it also protects
      them. Especially because of this protection the GPL is the most-widely
      used license for Free Software nowadays.
    </p>
    <p>
      Besides the GPL there are several other licenses granting thesse
      freedoms and hence qualifying as Free Software licenses. Of these
      especially the FreeBSD license should be mentioned. The major difference
      to the GPL is that it does not seek to protect the freedom.
    </p>
    <p>
      When talking about Free Software, the most common misconception is the
      belief that it has to be gratis. This is not the case - in fact a very
      big part of the Free Software protagonists work on the field of
      commercial Free Software.
    </p>
    <p>
      In 1998 the "Open Source Definition" was written by the
      U.S. citizen Bruce Perens as the main author. Its goal was to describe
      the technical properties of Free Software and to serve as the
      fundamental document of the "Open Source" movement.
    </p>
    <p>
      The "Open Source Definition" itself is a derivate of the "Debian
      Free Software Guidelines," which is derived from
      the four freedoms mentioned above. Therefore all three definitions
      describe the same licenses; the "GNU General Public License"
      (GPL) is the primary license for all definitions.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is the self-declared goal of the Open Source movement to be a
      marketing program for Free Software. This is sought by deliberatly
      turning away from the philosophical and political background; they are
      seen as hazardous to commercialization.
    </p>
    <p>
      Opposed to this, the Free Software movement has always understood the
      philosophy and the background as an essential part of the movement and
      one of it's biggest assets.
    </p>
<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
