<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - What is the GNU-Project?</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h2>What is the GNU-Project?</h2>
    </div>
    <p>
      The GNU-Project has been started in September 1983 
      by US American Richard M. Stallman in order
      to create a complete Unix-like operating system based on Free Software.
      Work on it started in the following January.
    </p>
    <p>
      Stallman started the "Free Software Foundation" in 1985 to deal with the
      juristical and organisational aspects of the GNU-Project and also for
      spreading the use of and knowledge about Free Software. Through the Free
      Software Foundation the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser
      General Public License (originally called GNU Library Public License)
      have been formulated and over the years they established themselves as
      the most widely used licenses for Free Software.
    </p>
    <p>
      The GNU-Project consists of smaller sub-projects maintained by
      volunteers or corporations usually with the goal to create or maintain a
      functional component. These sub-projects themselves are also called "GNU
      Projects" or "official GNU Projects."
    </p>
    <p>
      The name of the GNU-Project is derived from the recursive acronym "GNU's
      Not Unix." Since Unix was originally not only a certain kind of system
      but rather a product, this sought to symbolise that the GNU Project has
      the goal to create a system compatible with but not identical to Unix.
    </p>
    <p>
      The GNU System is (like other Unix operating systems) modular and today
      especially the GNU System with Linux kernel - the so-called
      GNU/Linux-System - is widely used and provides the basis for every
      so-called "Linux-Distribution."
    </p>
<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
