<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Test</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->

<h2>Towards a</h2>
<h2 align="center">"World Intellectual Wealth Organisation"</h2>
<h3>Supporting the Geneva Declaration</h3>

<div class="indent">

<p>The <a
href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
Declaration</a> [<a href="#1" name="ref1">1</a>] is an impressive step towards the
creation of a broad coalition of people, organisations and countries
[<a href="#2" name="ref2">2</a>] demanding that the international community
re-think the goals and mechanisms for awarding monopoly control over
different kinds of knowledge. It offers many constructive, concrete
suggestions for changes in WIPO goals, policies and priorities, and
provides ample and insightful arguments for redesign of the copyright
and patent bargains to better serve the public interest of all of
humankind.</p>

<p>We are convinced that new answers sometimes require new questions,
not more careful repetition of old questions. A World Intellectual
Property Organisation will always, understandably, lean towards
applying the pre-selected tool-set of monopolisation that it refers to
as Intellectual Property; a term that we find to be ideologically
charged and dangerously oblivious to the significant differences that
exist between the many areas of law that it tries to subsume.</p>

<p>While it may look at better, possibly more socially sustainable
ways of granting ownership-like monopolies over different forms of
knowledge, WIPO will not have an easy time looking for alternative
solutions. WIPO is not what we need.</p>

<p>We need a World Intellectual Wealth Organisation, dedicated to the
research and promotion of novel and imaginative ways to encourage the
production and dissemination of knowledge. Granting limited monopolies
and limited control over some kinds of knowledge may be part of this
new organisations tool-set, but not the only one, and maybe not even
the most important one.</p>

<p>We endorse and support the <a
href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
Declaration</a>, and invite its drafters, signatories, and the United
Nations to start thinking now not only about what the role of WIPO
should be, but rather what kind of organisation we need in its
place.</p>
</div>

<h3>References</h3>

<p class="indent">[<a name="1" href="#ref1">1</a>] Geneva Declaration:
<code id="indent"><a href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html</a></code>
</p>

<p class="indent">[<a name="2" href="#ref2">2</a>] Proposal by Argentina and Brazil for the establishment of a development agenda for WIPO:
<code id="indent"><a href="http://www.wipo.int/documents/en/document/govbody/wo_gb_ga/pdf/wo_ga_31_11.pdf">http://www.wipo.int/documents/en/document/govbody/wo_gb_ga/pdf/wo_ga_31_11.pdf</a></code>
</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

   </body>

   <timestamp>
    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
   </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
