<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - What do we do?</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
        <a href="whatwedo.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
	English |
        <a href="whatwedo.pt.html">Português</a>
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h2>What do we do?</h2>
    </div>

    <ul>

    <li><p>The FSF Europe is available for everyone as a contact point and
    orientational help on all issues regarding Free Software.</p></li>


    <li><p>The FSF Europe is lobbying for Free Software by actively offering
    itself as a competence center and seeking the dialog with
    politicians and the press.</p>

    <p>This is pursued on the local and European levels.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSF Europe works closely together with lawyers active in
    the Free Software area in Universities and practices in order to
    follow and influence the legal discourse.</p>

    <p>Also it cooperates with lawyers throughout Europe to maximize the
    legal security of Free Software.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSF Europe supports, coordinates and develops projects in the
    Free Software area, especially the GNU Project.</p>

    <p>It also provides computer resources to Free Software developers to
    enable them to continue their developments.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSF Europe helps companies to develop business models based on
    Free Software or fit existing models to it; it encourages companies
    in their evolution to Free Software.</p>
 
    <p>To make it easier for companies based on Free Software to be
    commercially successful, the FSF Europe also seeks to broaden the
    market for Free Software.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSF Europe helps coordinating and networking other initiatives
    in the Free Software area.</p></li>

    </ul>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
