<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Why we speak about Free Software - How to support and participate</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
        <a href="whyfs-howto.de.html">Deutsch</a> | 
	English 
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->

<center><h2>We speak about Free Software</h2>
<h3>How to support and participate</h3></center>

<h3>Support</h3>

<p>There are many ways to support the &quot;<a href="whyfs.en.html">We
speak about Free Software</a>&quot; campaign, first of all you can
start talking of and about Free Software.</p>

<p>Another way of supporting the campaign is to link to it from your
web page, encouraging people to become aware of the campaign and its
goals.</p>

<p>If you have a talent for art, you might also contribute some sort
of banner or button that people can then put on their pages.</p>

<h3>Participate</h3>

<p>The campaign is open. Every company can participate and we are glad
about everyone wanting to join. Of course participating and being
listed (other than simply supporting) in the campaign means that your
company should be using the term &quot;Free Software&quot; on its web
pages and publications. </p>

<p>If you decide to participate and provide us with an URL, we can
make your company name a link. But since the FSF Europe will not link
to sites promoting proprietary software, we need you to tell us that
this URL will never lead people to proprietary software.</p>

<h3>Contact</h3>

<p>If you wish to participate or provide artworks please send mail to
<a href="mailto:web@fsfeurope.org">web@fsfeurope.org</a>. For general
questions about the campaign, please contact <a
href="mailto:team@fsfeurope.org">team@fsfeurope.org</a>.</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
