<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Free Software in Europe - Towards a "World Intellectual Wealth Organisation"</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<!-- Begin page content -->

<h2>Towards a <br />"World Intellectual Wealth Organisation"</h2>
<h3>Supporting the <a href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva Declaration</a></h3>
<ul>

<p>The <a
href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
Declaration</a> is an impressive step towards the creation of a broad
coalition of people and organisations demanding that the international
community re-think the goals and mechanisms for awarding monopoly
control over different kinds of knowledge. It is full with
constructive, concrete suggestions on which aspects ought to be
tackled first, and provides ample and insightful argumentation as to
why more carefully balanced copyright and patent bargains are crucial
for all of humankind at this time.</p>

<p>We are convinced that new questions sometimes require new answers, not
more careful repetition of old answers. A World Intellectual Property
Organisation will always, understandably, lean towards applying the
pre-selected tool-set of monopolisation currently referred to as
Intellectual Property; a term that we feel being ideologically charged
and dangerously unaware of the significant differences that exist
between the many areas of law it is supposed to refer to.</p>

<p>While it may look at better, possibly more socially sustainable ways
of granting ownership-like monopolies over different forms of
knowledge, WIPO will not have an easy time looking for alternative
solutions. WIPO is not what we need.</p>

<p>We need a World Intellectual Wealth Organisation, dedicated to the
research and promotion of novel and imaginative ways to encourage the
production and dissemination of knowledge. Granting limited monopolies
and limited control over some kinds of knowledge will most likely be
part of this new organisations tool-set, but not the only one, and
maybe not even the most important one.</p>

<p>We endorse and support the <a
href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
Declaration</a>, and invite its drafters, signatories, and the United
Nations to start thinking now not only about what the role of WIPO
should be, but rather what kind of organisation we need in its
place.</p>

<h3>Signatories</h3>



</ul>

<!-- End page content -->

  </body>
  <timestamp>
    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
