<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <version>2</version>

  <head>
    <title>Public Awareness Activities</title>
  </head>

  <body class="toplevel">
    <h1>Public Awareness Activities</h1>

    <!-- Same text as on activities.**.xhtml until <localmenu ...> -->

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
        As a non-profit, non-governmental organisation, Free Software
        Foundation Europe works to create general understanding and
        support for Free Software and Open Standards. The following
        activities are concrete actions that we take in the areas of
        public awareness, policy advocacy and legal support.
      </p>
    </div>

    <p>
      Since its foundation in 2001, the FSFE has been working every
      single day to further Free Software in Europe and beyond. With
      our concrete activities, based upon the <a
      href="/about/ourwork.html">three pillars of our work</a>, we
      focus on protecting and extending user rights. Some of our
      actions run for many years, some are aimed at short-term
      developments, but all are part of our mission: empower users
      to control technology.
    </p>

    <p>
      Another major part of our work consists of continuous engagement
      and background work. We are present at <a
      href="/events/events.html">dozens of conferences</a> per year,
      support and maintain an <a
      href="/contribute/contribute.html">excellent community</a> and
      provide it with helpful resources. Furthermore, we are a
      prominent contact point for all questions and enquiries around
      software freedom, Open Standards, and user rights.
    </p>

    <localmenu id="2">Public Awareness</localmenu>

    <p class="highlight-text">
      <a href="/about/ourwork.html#awareness">Read more</a> about why
      Public Awareness is a key element of the FSFE's work, and our
      general approach in that area.
    </p>

    <activity-display highlight="yes" tag="awareness" />

    <h2 class="center">More Awareness Activities</h2>

    <activity-display tag="awareness" />

  </body>

</html>
