<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - LAFIS - LAying the Foundations for the Information
      Society</title>
  </head>

  <body>
 
[ <a href="fp6.html">Back to the FP6 page</a> ]

<h2>EXPRESSION OF INTEREST</h2>

      <h3>Integrated Project</h3>

      <h2>LAFIS - LAying the Foundations for the Information
Society</h2>



<br />

<center>
<a href="LAFIS.pdf">Download as PDF; 132k</a>
</center>

<br />

<p>Free Software Foundation Europe, Germany<br />
Associa&#199;&#227;o Nacional para o Software Livre,
Portugal<br />
Association ABUL, France<br />
Association For Free Software, UK<br />
Association Pour la Promotion et la Recherche en Informatique
Libre, France<br />
Centro Tempo Reale, Italy<br />
DIST-Universit&#224; di Genova, Italy<br />
Easter-eggs, France<br />
Groupe des Ecoles de Telecommunications (GET), France<br />
g10 Code GmbH, Germany<br />
Intevation GmbH, Germany<br />
MandrakeSoft, France<br />
LinuxTag e.V., Germany<br />
Prosa Progettazione Sviluppo Aperto S.r.l., Italy<br />
Verein zur F&#246;rderung Freier Software, Austria<br />
Verein zur F&#246;rderung Informationen und Software e.V.,
Germany<br />
V2 Organisation, Institute for the Unstable Media,
Netherlands<br />
VIPS Lab, Italy<br />
[wearlab]@TZi, Germany<br />
werk21, Germany<br />
      </p>

<h3>This Expression of Interest
was submitted in response to Call EOI.FP6.2002.</h3>

<h3>Prepared by Georg C. F. Greve &lt;greve@fsfe.org &gt;</h3>

<h1><a id="SECTION00010000000000000000"
name="SECTION00010000000000000000"></a><a id="description"
name="description"></a><br />
Description</h1>

<p>Free Software - sometimes also referred to as ``Libre software''
or ``Open Source Software''&#160;<a id="tex2html1" name="tex2html1"
href="#foot244">[*]</a> - is
best defined by the following four freedoms:</p>

<dl compact="compact">
<dt>1st</dt>

<dd>freedom: The freedom to run the program, for any purpose.</dd>

<dt>2nd</dt>

<dd>freedom: The freedom to study how the program works, and adapt
it to your needs. Access to the source code is a precondition for
this.</dd>

<dt>3rd</dt>

<dd>freedom: The freedom to redistribute copies.</dd>

<dt>4th</dt>

<dd>freedom: The freedom to improve the program, and release your
improvements to the public, so that the whole community benefits.
Access to the source code is a precondition for this.</dd>
</dl>

<p>Free Software provides a new concept, a new discipline as a
stable basis for the information age and the knowledge economy. Its
working principles are changing the IT sector towards a more
stable, lasting and sustainable approach with higher dynamics and
increased efficiency.<br />
</p>

<p>Any region adopting Free Software on a larger basis can benefit
in terms of<br />
</p>

<table cellpadding="3">
<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Greater independence
from foreign interests</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Increased
sustainability</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Freedom from foreign
mono- and oligopolies</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Alternative hard- and
software possibilities</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Strengthened domestic
market and local industries</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Better cooperation
between research and economy</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Encouraged
transdisciplinary research</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left">Better protection of
civil rights</td>
</tr>
</table>

<p>For a more detailed explanation, please see the
<em>Recommendation of the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF
Europe) and supporting parties for the European Community framework
programme 2002-2006</em> of April 30th, 2002,&#160;<a
id="tex2html2" name="tex2html2" href="#foot245">[*]</a><a
id="recommendation" name="recommendation"></a>in which the FSF
Europe with support of about 50 European companies, research
institutes and associations explains in more detail why and how
Free Software offers these advantages.<br />
</p>

<p>This integrated project is aimed towards mass adoption of Free
Software in all IT fields.</p>

<h2><a id="SECTION00011000000000000000"
name="SECTION00011000000000000000">Rationale</a></h2>

<p>Software is the lifeblood, medium and fundament of the
information society and knowledge economy. Therefore, providing and
furthering the strongest and most durable infrastructure has to be
a goal of any region willing to participate in the information
age.<br />
Because of its significant advantages, it is obvious that the first
region to adopt and support research and implementation in Free
Software on a larger scale can profit enormously and get a
head-start in the information society.<br />
</p>

<p>Other regions are beginning to get ready to capitalise on these
advantages, as - for instance - the recent activities in Peru have
shown.&#160;<a id="tex2html3" name="tex2html3"
href="#foot246">[*]</a><br />
</p>

<p>Europe, however, is given a uniquely favorable position to
become the global leader in the Information Economy due to its
vibrant Free Software community. It has already begun taking small
steps in this direction within the 5th Framework Programme that
should be built upon <b>now</b>.<br />
LAFIS intends to promote an Integrated Project to solve problems
and close gaps which are present or will arise in Free Software
development and production. In doing so, it will complete the
infrastructure needed for global mass adpotion of Free Software in
Europe by end-users, companies, governmental institutions
etc.<br />
</p>

<p>Through this, LAFIS will lay the foundations for a European
information society.</p>

<h3><a id="SECTION00011100000000000000"
name="SECTION00011100000000000000">Issues with integration of Free
Software into FP6</a></h3>

<p>Although the 6th Framework Programme and Europe in general would
profit immensely from the mass-adoption of Free Software, the
current structure of the FP6 makes it difficult to provide adequate
support for Free Software. There are several reasons for this that
we would like to bring into the FP6 thought process.<br />
</p>

<p>First of all, Free Software is not limited to a single domain or
thematic area, its positive effects transcend research disciplines,
markets, society. The Free Software paradigm changes the workings
and rules of software towards a climate that rewards cooperative
efforts and stronger integration. This sort of climate change,
although very obvious, is hard to quantify.<br />
</p>

<p>The paradigms are shifted away from a supply-driven IT industry
towards a demand-driven model. In other words: The user truly
becomes a determining factor. Therefore the direction of important
Free Software projects is often hard to predict. Demand may
overrule the ideas of supply and give the project a new direction.
This very positive effect - some people go as far as calling it
``collateral use'' - makes Free Software harder to predict.<br />
</p>

<p>Also: Players in the Free Software field can currently not be
judged by their finances. Competence, not money is the most
important capital of Free Software players today. Although this is
likely to change with a greater adoption of Free Software, it is a
problem we face in relation with the FP6.<br />
The ``Funding by size'' paradigm is one that is likely to fail for
Free Software, because in the current situation it would usually
further the least competent parties.<br />
</p>

<p>These problems should be addressed and discussed to find a
solution that will allow Europe to capitalise on the advantages of
Free Software in the best and most efficient way.</p>

<h2><a id="SECTION00012000000000000000"
name="SECTION00012000000000000000"></a><a id="objectives"
name="objectives"></a><br />
Objectives</h2>

<p>The objectives of LAFIS are finding and completing powerful
solutions for fundamental technical and technological problems,
fill strategically important gaps in Free Software and to promote
it along with the ethical principles that underlie its production
towards mass adoption in every information technology field as the
preferrable solution.<br />
Some current gaps, needs and problems are:</p>

<ol>
<li>Finalising a full Free-Software based, simplified client-end
platform suitable for mass replacement of current proprietary
client technologies.</li>

<li>Create and extend complete Free Software support of thematic
areas; for instance: Multimedia; Secure Email; Small/medium/large
size company automation; including CRM, ERP, Workflow-Management.
Where applicable: Create ``Drop-In-Solutions'' for these
areas.</li>

<li>Extend usability through creation of: More and better
documentation; Better, easier, more intuitive and user-friendly
documentation tools; Better, more complete databases of Free
Software applications and supported hardware; Usability schemes and
ergonomy studies.</li>

<li>Extended hardware support.</li>

<li>Maintenance of crucial ``orphaned'' applications.<a
id="tex2html4" name="tex2html4" href="#foot67">[*]</a></li>

<li>Development, maintenance and support of Free, patent
unencumbered formats and protocols.</li>

<li>Identification and solution of other problems and needs that
may arise.</li>
</ol>

<h2><a id="SECTION00013000000000000000"
name="SECTION00013000000000000000">General approach to achieve the
objectives</a></h2>

<p>LAFIS approaches the objectives by assembling a consortium of
the most knowledgeable and strongest European players in the Free
Software field to coordinate multiple sub-projects to research and
development in the fields touched by the problems listed in
section&#160;<a href="#objectives">1.2</a> and
tasks/projects necessary for their success.<br />
The purpose of this approach is to give the European Free Software
community an active and efficient way of getting involved in
essential solutions to current problems of strategic interest.</p>

<h1><a id="SECTION00020000000000000000"
name="SECTION00020000000000000000">Need and Relevance</a></h1>

<p>Software has not only become a seminal economic and cultural
property, it also provides the grounds upon which the information
society and economy will be built.<br />
</p>

<p>Those who depend on foreign interests to uphold their own
economy, communication, education and research will most likely not
become key players in the information age. Becoming and remaining
independent &gt;From foreign hardware and software oligopolies is a
crucial step towards a sustainable and lasting approach.<br />
</p>

<p>As laid out in the recommendation referenced on page&#160;<a
href="#recommendation">[*]</a> in
section&#160;<a href="#description">1</a>, Free Software
offers protection from foreign and internal hardware and software
monopolies, encourages freedom of markets, protects privacy and
therefore trust in information technologies, furthers research and
education and empowers all Europeans to become active participants
in the information society.<br />
</p>

<p>Through LAFIS, Europe will not only gain the necessary
foundations for the desired knowledge economy, it will also make a
leap towards becoming the global leader and region of competence
for these technologies.</p>

<h1><a id="SECTION00030000000000000000"
name="SECTION00030000000000000000">Scale of Ambition and Critical
Mass</a></h1>

<p>The main objective of LAFIS is to find optimal answers for the
needs arising out of the shift towards a knowledge society as
described in section&#160;<a href="#objectives">1.2</a>.
Many of these solutions have not yet been found, nor can they be
found in the current development trend of Free Software. Finding
them requires fundamented research and development, which would
best be done within a the organisation of an integrated project of
the size and partnership as outlined in the 6th EC Framework
Programme. As such, the ambitions of LAFIS are:</p>

<ol>
<li>push the technical solutions in Free Software beyond the final
threshold to allow addressing any problem with the advantages of
Free Software. Achieving this result would bring enormous benefits
in terms of 

<ol>
<li>macro-economic benefit: most of the economics related to
software (which are nowadays lead by countries outside the EC)
would turn back into European Countries, with an increase of
investments and jobs in Europe;</li>

<li>macro-economic benefit: currently, the whole European IT
industry is utterly dependent on foreign oligopolies that can shut
down parts or all of the European IT industry should this seem
politically or economically useful. Free Software will eliminate
this dependency;</li>

<li>economic benefit: the efficiency of the economic model of Free
Software would provide societies with a greater wealth of services
at a fraction of the total costs involved today;</li>

<li>economic benefit: because of the freedoms granted, Free
Software is the most secure IT investment possible today. Bringing
companies security in their IT investments will allow them to
invest more heavily in other areas;</li>

<li>social benefit: Free Software secures the capability of every
European citizen to participate and get active in the information
society;</li>

<li>social benefit: through its principles of cooperation,
transparency and ethics, Free Software helps creating an overall
computer-literacy that will benefit a climate of democracy and
cooperation;</li>

<li>social benefit: a shift towards Free Software would raise
consciousness for the issues raised by the information age.</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li>give Europe a head-start into and leadership in the information
society; as stated elsewhere, Europe is in a uniquely favorable
position to achive this position: an Integrated Project like LAFIS
seems like the best way of building the foundations for this
role.</li>
</ol>

More details can be found in the recommendation referenced on
page&#160;<a href="#recommendation">[*]</a> in
section&#160;<a href="#description">1</a>. 

<h1><a id="SECTION00040000000000000000"
name="SECTION00040000000000000000">Integration</a></h1>

<p>The objectives stated in section&#160;<a
href="#objectives">1.2</a> on page&#160;<a
href="#objectives">[*]</a>
will best be reached through the following activities:</p>

<ol>
<li>horizontal and interdisciplinary research (research and
development will be conducted in parallel on several aspects,
leading to synergetic effects and communication exchange between
several sub-projects)</li>

<li>creation of template solutions for special industries</li>

<li>dissemination and training activities (including specialised
and non-specialised training)</li>

<li>demonstration activities to show Free Software in action in
different contexts, in particular in large companies and
institutions</li>

<li>global coordination and management of these activities</li>
</ol>

<p>In order to reach these objectives and to set up these
activities, a consortium of the most knowledgeable and most
experienced Free Software players in Europe will be constituted,
including</p>

<table cellpadding="3" border="1">
<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left"><b>Organisation</b></td>
<th align="left"><b>Country</b></th>
<th align="left"><b>Web page</b></th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3"><b>Area of Excellence</b></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3"><b>Role in Project</b></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>1</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>FSF Europe</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://fsfeurope.org</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Competence center; Partner ``AGNULA''
(IST-2001-34879); Co-maintainer of GPL/LGPL and GNU Project</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Coordination, Community-interaction,
Competence, Vision, Integration, Business-models, Legal
Aspects</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>2</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>ABUL</b></td>
<td align="left">France</td>
<td align="left">http://www.abul.org</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software association furthering
Education; Organiser Libre Software Meeting</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Events, Education,
Community-interaction &amp; local competence</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>3</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>ANSOL</b></td>
<td align="left">Portugal</td>
<td align="left">http://www.ansol.org</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software association furthering
Free Software in Portugal</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Community-interaction &amp; local
competence</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>4</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>AFFS</b></td>
<td align="left">United Kingdom</td>
<td align="left">http://www.affs.org.uk</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software association furthering
Free Software in the UK</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Community-interaction &amp; local
competence</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>5</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>APRIL</b></td>
<td align="left">France</td>
<td align="left">http://www.april.org</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software association furthering
Free Software in France</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Community-interaction &amp; local
competence</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>6</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>Centro Tempo Reale</b></td>
<td align="left">Italy</td>
<td align="left">http://www.centrotemporeale.it</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Center devoted to music research,
production and education. Coordinator AGNULA project
(IST-2001-34879)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Audio &amp; Multimedia,
development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>7</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>DIST-Universit&#224;</b></td>
<td align="left">Italy</td>
<td align="left">http://infomus.dist.unige.it</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Multimedia lab, EC projects: MEGA,
CARE-HERE, MoSART</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Multimedia and expressive/emotional
software, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>8</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>Easter-Eggs</b></td>
<td align="left">France</td>
<td align="left">http://www.easter-eggs.com</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Company for Free Software &amp;
GNU/Linux</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Business integration, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>9</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>GET</b></td>
<td align="left">France</td>
<td align="left">http://www.get-telecom.fr</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Consortium of the seven major French
Graduate Schools for Information Technology</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Communcation technology &amp;
research, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>10</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>g10 Code GmbH</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://www.g10code.de</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Home of GnuPG, only supported major
OpenPGP implementation; Project partner ``Egypt'' (BSI)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Cryptography &amp; Security, Business
integration, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>11</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>Intevation GmbH</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://www.intevation.de</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Geographic Information Systems,
Strategic Free Software consulting; Project partner ``Egypt''
(BSI)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">GIS, Business integration, usability
design, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>12</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>LinuxTag e.V.</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://www.linuxtag.org</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Largest Free Software event organiser;
Organiser of LinuxTag</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Events &amp; Conferences,
development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>13</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>MandrakeSoft</b></td>
<td align="left">France</td>
<td align="left">http://www.mandrakesoft.com</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Producer and publisher of ``Mandrake''
GNU/Linux distribution</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">End-user interaction, packaging,
business integration, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>14</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>Prosa</b></td>
<td align="left">Italy</td>
<td align="left">http://www.prosa.it</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Services around GNU/Linux and Free
Software</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Business integration, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>15</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>FFS</b></td>
<td align="left">Austria</td>
<td align="left">http://www.ffs.or.at</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software association furthering
Free Software in Austria</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Community-interaction &amp; local
competence</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>16</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>ffis</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://www.ffis.de</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software association furthering
Free Software in Germany</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Community-interaction &amp; local
competence</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>17</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>V2</b></td>
<td align="left">Netherlands</td>
<td align="left">http://www.v2.nl</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Free Software in art, culture,
engineering</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Multimedia, art, communication,
development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>18</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>VIPS Lab</b></td>
<td align="left">Italy</td>
<td align="left">http://vips.sci.univr.it</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Coordinator SOb project
IST-2000-25287; Partner ARROV; Organiser COST-G6 Conference in
2000</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Computer vision, pattern recognition,
image and sound processing, development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>19</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>[wearlab]@TZi</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://www.wearlab.de</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Center for mobile/wearable computing
at University of Bremen</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Mobile/wearable computing,
development</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center"><b>20</b></td>
<td align="left"><b>werk21</b></td>
<td align="left">Germany</td>
<td align="left">http://www.werk21.de</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Agency for communication &amp; design,
organiser ``Bundestux''</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td align="center">&#160;</td>
<td align="left" colspan="3">Publications, material, end-user
integration</td>
</tr>
</table>


<hr />
<h4>Footnotes</h4>

<dl>
<dt><a id="foot244" name="foot244">Open Source Software&#160;</a><a
id="foot244" name="foot244" href="#tex2html1">[*]</a></dt>

<dd>For reasons that can be found online at
<tt>http://fsfeurope.org/documents/whyfs.en.html</tt>, this
document will use Free Software as the preferred term.</dd>

<dt><a id="foot245" name="foot245">Recommendation of the Free Software
Foundation Europe (FSF Europe) and supporting parties for the European
Community framework programme 2002-2006&#160;</a><a id="foot245"
name="foot245" href="#tex2html2">[*]</a></dt>

<dd>Online at <tt>http://fsfeurope.org/activities/policy/fp6/recommendation.html</tt>.</dd>

<dt><a id="foot246" name="foot246">activities in Peru&#160;</a><a
id="foot246" name="foot246" href="#tex2html3">[*]</a></dt>

<dd>For reference, please see the letter by the Peruvian
Congressman Villanueva. Mirrored in several places like
<tt>http://pimientolinux.com/peru2ms/</tt> .</dd>

<dt><a id="foot67" name="foot67">``orphaned'' applications.</a><a
id="foot67" name="foot67" href="#tex2html4">[*]</a></dt>

<dd>``Orphaned'' applications are Free Software programs which have
been abandoned, for various reasons, by their maintainer(s). Some
of them are key elements and their maintenance can be considered a
crucial strategic necessity.</dd>
</dl>

<hr />

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
