<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Recommendation for the 6th EU Framework Programme</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<div align="right">
<h3>Hamburg, April 30th, 2002</h3>
</div>
<center>
<h1>Recommendation</h1>
of the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF Europe)<br />
and supporting parties<br />
for the<br />
<b>Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the
Council concerning the rules for the participation of undertakings, 
research centres and universities and for the dissemination of research 
results for the implementation of the European Community framework
programme 2002--2006</b>
</center>

<br />

<center>
<a href="recommendation.pdf">Download as PDF; 126k</a>
</center>

<br />

[ <a href="recommendation.en.html">Recommendation</a> | Reasoning | <a href="supporting-parties.en.html">Supporting Parties</a> ] [ <a href="more-support.en.html">More Supporting Parties</a> ]

<br />

<h2>Reasoning</h2>

<p>The ``Introduction to the instruments available for implementing
the FP6 priority thematic areas'' speaking notes and the ``modified
proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the
Council'' -- henceforth referred to as ``Proposal'' -- define several
goals and priorities for the 6th framework programme. This section
will explain why and how some of these can benefit from Free
Software.</p>

<h3>Increasing the European edge</h3>

<p>To increase international competitiveness, it is important to
encourage freedom from software and hardware dependencies on U.S.
companies. Free Software is a proven way of furthering this
independence as can be seen when studying the hardware platform
independence of Free Software operating systems available today.</p>

<p>Free Software operating systems cover a wider range of hardware
platforms than any proprietary operating system.  Because of the
inherent properties of Free Software, they can also be ported with
fewer problems and by local suppliers, thus reducing the hardware
dependency and opening up new perspectives for innovative
hardware and software development and industry on both local and
European levels.</p>

<p>As cited in paragraph 1 of the Proposal, Article 163 of the Treaty
gives the Community the objective of strengthening the scientific and
technological bases of Community industry and encouraging it to become
more competitive at international level, while promoting research
activities deemed neccessary by virtue of other Community policies.</p>

<p>Furthering Free Software will help achieving this objective.</p>

<h3>Creating sustainable knowledge economy</h3>

<p>Sustainability is one of the major advantages offered by Free
Software, especially by ``Copylefted'' Free Software. One can easily
find good indication for this when considering that this increased
sustainability allowed Free Software to create two major operating
systems<sup><a NAME="ref1" HREF="#fn1">1</a></sup> as good as and in
parts even better than the proprietary operating systems with a tiny
fraction<sup><a NAME="ref2" HREF="#fn2">2</a></sup> of the resources
spent on the proprietary operating systems.</p>

<p>Since operating systems are the first part of the Free Software
infrastructure, their creation was the initial step. Therefore they
provide the largest base of experience with Free Software, which is
why they have been chosen for most examples in this document.</p>

<p>It should be understood that Free Software works similarly in other
fields and is not limited to operating systems, however.</p>

<p>In perspective of building a European knowledge economy, it should be
self-explanatory that software will be the basis of this economy.</p>

<p>Access to the technology upon which the knowledge economy will be
built should be encouraged, not prevented.  The more people,
organisations and companies have access to the fundamental
prerequisites of the knowledge economy, the more dynamic
and competitive the knowledge economy will become.</p>

<p>Free Software offers the highest accessibility known today.</p>

<p>These properties of Free Software can help meeting the goals of
Paragraph 5 of the Proposal, which refers to conclusions aimed at the
rapid establishment of a European research and innovation area with a
view to job creation and economic growth, in the context of
sustainable development, with the ultimate goal of enabling the Union,
within the next ten years, to become the world's most competitive and
dynamic knowledge economy.</p>

<h3>Ethical principles</h3>

<p>Even though access to software has never been acknowledged as a
fundamental right by any policial system known to us, it seems obvious
that access to software becomes an increasingly important prerequisite
to be able to participate in the cultural, social and economic
development of mankind.</p>

<p>With software becoming the most important medium of communication,
access to software and freedom to use software become immediately
connected with such fundamental principles of democracy as freedom of
speech<sup><a NAME="ref3" HREF="#fn3">3</a></sup>.</p>

<p>Free Software guarantees equal usage and access to all people,
avoiding such problems entirely.</p>

<p>Therefore it also appears to be the best choice when viewed in
accordance with paragraph 11 of the Proposal, which gives that
research activities carried out within the framework programme must
respect fundamental ethical principles, notably those which appear in
the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.</p>

<h3>Integration of European Research and Industry</h3>

<p>Free Software encourages integration and cooperation in a very
effective way. The ability to work together regardless of the size or
location of the partners involved is a major advantage that could be
used to futher the European objectives.</p>

<p>Especially Copylefted Free Software helps keeping the playing field
level and allows players as different as IBM, a local developer,
Universities and a group of smaller European companies to cooperate on
a project. This has been demonstrated by the recent engagement to
bring GNU/Linux<sup><a NAME="ref4" HREF="#fn4">4</a></sup> to the IBM
S/390 mainframe.</p>

<p>Thanks to the properties of the GNU GPL<sup><a NAME="ref5"
HREF="#fn5">5</a></sup>, none of these partners had to fear losing
their investments<sup><a NAME="ref6" HREF="#fn6">6</a></sup> or being
taken advantage of.</p>

<p>The integration and cooperation between commercial and non-commercial
partners made possible by Free Software is rather unique and
partially responsible for the economic value of Free Software.</p>

<p>As given by Annex 1 of the Proposal, integration of European research
while strengthening the scientific and technological bases of
Community industry is a seminal objective to be furthered by the 6th
framework programme that could profit from Free Software.</p>

<h3>Strengthening transdisciplinary approaches</h3>

<p>While integrating research activities in similar fields can be
difficult, doing the same for transdisciplinary research will normally
be much more complicated, albeit much more fruitful where it succeeds.</p>

<p>The same mechanisms that allow integration and cooperation between the
commercial and non-commercial fields will simplify transdisciplinary
cooperation, making Free Software an excellent choice to encourage
such activities.</p>

<p>This would directly benefit Annex 1 of the Proposal, as well, which
also specifies that research activities will be based on an integrated
and, where relevant, transdisciplinary approach, incorporating as
appropriate innovation and socio-economic dimensions.</p>

<h3>Scientific software</h3>

<p>With increasing reliance of science on software, software becomes an
integral part of the scientific process. The scientific method relies
on the ability to verify results, however, and only if this is
possible will a scientific result hold any significance.</p>

<p>If such a result is somehow dependent on or published as proprietary
software, verification becomes impossible, greatly reducing the impact
of the research effort.</p>

<p>Free Software does not have these drawbacks, making it the best choice
for all kinds of science, which is obviously a major concern of the
Proposal. </p>

<h3>Protection of personal data and privacy</h3>

<p>Since communication through software is always opaque, it is seminal
that the software itself is entirely transparent so people retain the
possibility to know what the software does when they transmit personal
or private data.</p>

<p>Currently, only Free Software is truly transparent.</p>

<p>As set out in the Charter of fundamental rights of the EU, protection
of personal data and privacy becomes increasingly important when
approaching the information age. Furthering Free Software will help
upholding the Charter.</p>

<h3>Information society technologies</h3>

<p>As stated above, Europe already has a leading role in Free Software
development and the European Free Software community is the most
active worldwide.</p>

<p>As stated in section 1.1.2., ``Information society technologies,''
Europe is well positioned to lead and shape the future development not
only of technologies but also of their impact on our life and work.</p>

<p>If Europe capitalised on this advantage, it could become the global
leader in information technology and knowledge economy.</p>


<hr />

<dt><a NAME="fn1"></a><sup>1</sup> 
The most prominent Free Software operating system employed today is
  certainly the GNU/Linux system, -- often only referred to as
  ``Linux'' -- based on the GNU project started in 1984 by the Free
  Software Foundation; it should be noted however, that other Free
  Software operating systems like the ``Berkeley Source Distribution''
  (BSD) based systems FreeBSD, NetBSD and OpenBSD are also quite
  successfully being used.
</dt>

<dt><a NAME="fn2"></a><sup>2</sup> 
How large this fraction truly is can only be estimated. It is
  certainly below 10% and quite probably below 1%.
</dt>

<dt><a NAME="fn3"></a><sup>3</sup> 
This does not seem overexaggerated in the light of some proprietary
  software licenses specifying that a piece of software (in this case
  a web publishing program) may not be used to say anything
  unfavorable about the software vendor. Even if this clause won't
  hold in court it clearly shows how technology can interfere with
  free speech.
</dt>

<dt><a NAME="fn4"></a><sup>4</sup> 
The essential parts of which are covered under the GNU General Public
  License and GNU Lesser General Public License.
</dt>

<dt><a NAME="fn5"></a><sup>5</sup> 
Please see <a
href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html">http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html</a>
</dt>

<dt><a NAME="fn6"></a><sup>6</sup> 
IBM invested 1 billion USD into its Free Software activities last
  year.
</dt>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
