<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - 7th EC Framework Programme</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<center>
<h1>7th EC Framework Programme</h1>
</center>

<p>After the positive feedback from the application on the <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/projects/fp6/fp6.en.html">6th Framework Programme</a> the FSF Europe has put their eyes on 
the upcoming challanges by the <a href="http://cordis.europa.eu/en/home.html"> 7th Framework Programme</a>.</p>

<p>The FSFE is planing to participate in projects covering the spectrum from 
information technology security over research for small and medium 
enterprises to reseach on the social impact of information technology.</p>

<p>Currently the calls from the EC are being analized and potential project 
issues are identified. After that phase, consortia with organisations, 
businesses and research facilities around Free Software issues will be formed.
With all partners on board, project proposals will be written and 
filed to the EC in <b> mid May 2007.</b></p>

<p>The projects will focus on potentials and risks of the information society in 
the areas of business, education, security and developement. Free Software is 
introduced as a very good vehicle to use the potentials and minimize the risks. 
Through qualitative consortia, the proposals are aiming to bridge the gap 
between research, business and civil society. They are also contributing to the 
dissemination of the idea of Free Software in all significant entities.</p>

<p>As soon as the basic steps are completed, the proposals will be announced here,
further describing the work the FSF Europe is planing to do.</p>


<br />

<center><hr width="60%"/></center>

<h3>Remark</h3>

<p>As many will know, activities on this level are often painstakingly
slow and take a lot of work. Althuogh the FSF Europe will try to do as
much as it can, its resources are limited by the amount of support
that it gets. So one way of speeding the process up <a
href="/help/donate.html">supporting our work</a>.</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
