<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Our Donors 2025</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article">
    <h1>Our Donors 2025</h1>

    <localmenu id="2025">2025</localmenu>

    <p id="introduction">
      We would like to thank everyone who supports our work. Your
      <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">contributions as volunteer</a>,
      <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/support">as an FSFE supporter</a>, or as a
      sponsor make our work possible. A diverse distributed base of support
      secures our independence, so every contribution no matter how big or
      small, is important for our long term work.
    </p>

    <p>
      Thank you to everybody who donated <strong>18,000&#160;€ per year
      (1,500&#160;€ per month)</strong> or more:
    </p>

    <dynamic-content group="category1"/>

    <p>
      Thank you to everybody who donated <strong>3,600&#160;€ per year
      (300&#160;€ per month)</strong> or more:
    </p>

    <dynamic-content group="category2"/>

    <p>
      Thank you to everybody who donated <strong>720&#160;€ per year
      (60&#160;€ per month)</strong> or more:
    </p>

    <dynamic-content group="category3"/>

    <p>
      We also would like to thank those donors who preferred to remain
      anonymous, and the hundreds of donors and supporters who donated smaller
      amounts, many of them throughout many years. Every financial
      contribution, no matter how big or small, is important for our work, and
      in fact, these numerous smaller donations make up one third of our total
      funds.
    </p>

    <p>
      We highly encourage all our supporters to also publicly show their
      support <a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.html"> with our supporter graphics</a>
      and thereby encourage more people and organisations in our society to
      support our work.
    </p>

    <p>
      For <a href="/about/transparency-commitment.html">transparency reasons</a>,
      the names of legal bodies which donated more than 10% of our total yearly
      income are listed here without exception. Private people who donate more
      than 10% of our yearly income are only listed if they agree to it;
      otherwise, we list the donation as an “anonymous donation from a private
      person”.
    </p>

    <p>
      Hardware donations are listed on our
      <a href="hardware.html">Hardware Donation website</a>. There, you can
      also find Information on how to support us with hardware.
    </p>
  </body>

  <text id="since">Donor&#160;since</text>

  <sidebar promo="donate">
    <h3>FSFE’s Funds</h3>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash flow</a></li>
      <li><a href="/donate/hardware.html">Hardware donations</a></li>
      <li><a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.html">Sponsoring graphics</a></li>
    </ul>
  </sidebar>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
