<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Background</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
	<a href="background.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
	English |
	<a href="background.fr.html">Français</a> |
        <a href="background.pt.html">Português</a>
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
          <h2>Background</h2>

          <p> In this section you can find some information about
          Free Software, the GNU Project, the Free Software
          Foundation and FSF Europe.</p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <p><a href="documents/preamble.html">Preamble to the
                Constitution of the Free Software Foundation Europe</a></p>
              <ul>
                <p>
                The preamble of the constitution for the Free Software
                Foundation Europe tries to give an insight into what
                Free Software is and why it is so important.
              </p>
              </ul>
            </li>    
            <li>
              <p> <a href="documents/freesoftware.html">What is
              Free Software?</a></p>
            <ul><p>
               A short lexicon-like text explaining what Free Software
              is. 
            </p></ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p> <a href="documents/gnuproject.html">What is
              the GNU  Project?</a></p>
            <ul><p>
               A short lexicon-like text explaining what the GNU-Project
              is. 
            </p></ul>
            </li>
           </ul>
           <h3>Historic documents</h3> 
            <p>These documents are of
            largely historic interest as they tend to contain a lot
            of information that is outdated.</p>
           <ul>
            <li>
              <p><a href="documents/doi.html">Declaration of Intent
              - FSF Europe</a></p>

            <ul><p> This was the first public announcement for the
             Free Software Foundation Europe, launched by the original
             initiators. Its goal was to inform the community about
             their intentions and get in touch with people from other
             countries who might be willing to participate.  It drew
             an amazing amount of interest, has been featured on many
             news-sites and the almost empty web-site had about 15.000
             hits in the first week.</p></ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
