<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"> 
	<head> 
		<title>Free Software Foundation Europe</title> 
	</head> 
	<body> 

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here --> 
      <!-- Begin page content --> 
      <center> 
	<h1>Free Software Foundation Europe</h1> 
	<table width="70%"> 
	  <tr>
	    <td>
	      <ul> 
		<li><a href="documents/whyweexist.html">Why do we exist?</a>
		</li> 
		<li><a href="help/help.html">How can you help us?</a></li> 
		<li><a href="documents/freesoftware.html">What is Free
		    Software?</a></li> 
	      </ul>
	    </td> 
	    <td>
	      <ul> 
		<li><a href="documents/whatwedo.html">What do we do?</a></li> 
		<li><a href="help/thankgnus.html">Who would we like to
		    thank?</a></li> 
		<li><a href="documents/gnuproject.html">What is the GNU
		    Project?</a></li> 
	      </ul>
	    </td> 
	  </tr>
	</table> 
      </center> 

      <p>
	Welcome to the home page of the Free Software Foundation Europe. The
	FSF Europe was launched March 10th 2001 and works towards all European
	aspects of Free Software and especially the <a
	href="documents/gnuproject.html">GNU Project</a>.  It is actively
	supporting development of Free Software and furthering GNU-based
	systems such as GNU/Linux. Also it provides a competence center for
	politicians, lawyers and journalists in order to secure the legal,
	political and social future of Free Software.
      </p>

      <h3>News</h3> 


      <dl>

        <dt>27 May 2002</dt>

	<dd>
         <p><b>FSF Europe completes successful first year:</b>
	On May 26th 2002, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF
Europe) finishes its second general assembly, completing the first
year of activities. Members from Sweden, Italy, Germany and France
drew a summary of last years activities, analyzed the current
situation of Free Software and exchanged plans and visions for the
upcoming year. 
[<a href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2002q2/000042.html">More...</a>]</p>
	</dd>

        <dt>30 April 2002</dt>

	<dd>
          <p><b>Recommendation by the FSF Europe and supporting
              parties for the 6th European Community Framework
              Programme:</b> "Free Software is a concept that has
              fundamentally changed the way some parts of the IT
              sector are working towards a more stable, lasting and
              sustainable approach with higher dynamics and increased
              efficiency. It is obvious that the first region to adopt
              and support this principle on a larger scale can profit
              enormously and get a head-start in the information age."
              [<a href="documents/fp6/">More...</a>]</p>
	</dd>

        <dt>28 April 2002</dt>

	<dd>
	  <p>
	  On Monday 29 April 2002, at 6pm in London, we invite you to
	  join the <i> European Copyright Directive Alert </i>
	  miniconference. Organized by the <a
	  href="http://uk.eurorights.org/">Campaign for Digital Rights
	  </a> it will explain the dangers of the <a
	  href="law/eucd/">EUCD</a>. Unless it is stopped before
	  December 2002, it will become legal in each European
	  country. [<a
	  href="http://www.lonix.org.uk/tnet-cgi/Lonix?CODE=userMeetings">More...</a>]</p>
	</dd>

        <dt>24 April 2002</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>On Friday 26 April 2002, the Free Software Foundation
	      Europe will be present at the first LiLiT meeting in
	      Liège, Belgium.  During this evening (night ?-) session,
	      we will focus on the best means to explain the ethical
	      value of Free Software. A global view of the on going
	      actions will hopefully allow everyone to figure out how
	      to promote and defend the Free Software ideals.  [<a
	      href="events/events.en.html">More...</a>]</p>
        </dd>

        <dt>31 January 2002</dt>
        <dd>
          <p><b>The Free Software Foundation Europe gathers members
              and volunteers at the Free and Open Source Software
              Developers Meeting in Brussels</b>
              Between the 16th and 17th of February, 2002, the Free
              and Open Source Software Developers Meeting will take
              place in Brussels, Belgium. Among the visitors will be
              Richard M. Stallman, president of the Free Software
              Foundation and Georg C. F. Greve, president of the Free
              Software Foundation Europe. The FSF Europe welcomes all
              members of the press who wish to meet the members and
              volunteers of the foundation.
            [<a href="news/article2002-01-31-01.en.html">More...</a>]</p>
        </dd>

      </dl>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


