1996

US
Governement

http://www.iitf.doc.gov/eleccomm/ecomm.htm
A Framework For Global Electronic Commerce

In this article (1996), Al Gore explains that all countries in the
World should adopt the US patent law in order to benefit from the
growth of electronic commerce.

June 1997

EU
European Commission

http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/intprop/indprop/558.htm
Patents - Commission approves Green Paper

This is the document which started it all. It was released in 1997.

December 1997

EU
European Commission

http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/intprop/indprop/1127.htm
Commission presents a proposal for a Directive on the protection of
technical inventions (utility models)

This directive on utility models (i.e. short time patents) does not
include any exception for computer programmes, thus allowing them. It
has not been voted yet.

February 1999

EU
European Commission

http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/intprop/indprop/99.htm
Patents: Commission outlines ambitious series of measures

In this document, the European Commission confirms that there will be
software patents. We also recommend the original French version which
includes a sentence explaining that "software patents had a great
effect on innovation" and that Microsoft is a good example of software
patent holder.

18 Mars 1999

FR
Governement

http://petition.eurolinux.org/statements/view_html?key=968515758.659
Pierre Laffitte - Senateur (France)

 Pérennité des données administratives et libre accès des citoyens
impliquent que les normes de communication utilisées par
l'administration ne fassent pas l'objet de brevet et que pour l'accès
à ces normes elles ne fassent ni l'objet de droit d'auteur, c'est à
dire que les logiciels correspondants soient libres.

24 June 1999

FR
Governement

http://www.freepatents.org/law/summary24.html
Conférence intergouvernementale (France)

November 1999

EU
European Commission

http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/intprop/indprop/utility.htm
Amended proposal for a Directive on the protection of inventions by
utility model.

This directive on utility models (i.e. short time patents) does not
include any exception for computer programmes, thus allowing them. It
has not been voted yet.

Summer 2000

EU
European Commission

A directive was introduced by the European Commission (Directorate for
Internal Market headed by Commissioner Bolkenstein and managed by John
Mogg, one of the most prominent supporter of software patents at the
European Commission). 

7 September 2000

FR
Governement

http://petition.eurolinux.org/statements/view_html?key=967730717.369
Gilles Savary - Député Européen (France) 

Je pense que nous devons distinguer les concepts de droits d'auteur
des concepts de brevetabilité. Les droits d'auteur peuvent à la limite
se concevoir, car ils sont la rémunératon d'une création et de sa
diffusion; la brevetabilité est au contraire l'appropriation privée
d'une diffusion qui est une diffusion extrêmement encadrée et donc
privative pour le plus grand nombre.

14 September 2000

http://petition.eurolinux.org/statements/view_html?key=968937455.986
Justus Kampp (Germany)


19 October 2000

http://www.europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/intprop/indprop/softpaten.htm
Software patents - Commission launches consultations

The European Commission announced the opening of an official
consultation on the economic and social impact of software patents in
Europe. In order to help European Authorities to conduct an open
consultation, the EuroLinux Alliance of software publishers and non
profit organisations debuts a public forum and a rich knowledge base.


November 2000 

An intergovernmental conference happened in november 2000 to revise
the Munich Convention.

15 December 2000

http://petition.eurolinux.org/consultation/ec-consult.html

The following document constitutes the official EuroLinux response to
the consultation on the harmonization of software patent Law launched
by the European Commission.

15 December 2000

http://www.europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/intprop/indprop/softpaten.htm
Software patents - Commission closes consultations

