<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Our Work - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body class="subsite">
    <h1 class="heading">Our Work</h1>
    <div id="introduction">

      <!-- for translations please have a look at http://fsfe.org/about/mission -->
        
  <p>Free Software Foundation Europe helps individuals and organisations to
  understand how Free Software contributes to freedom, transparency, and
  self-determination. We enhance users' rights by abolishing barriers to Free
  Software adoption, encourage people to use and develop Free Software, and
  provide resources to enable everyone to further promote Free Software in
  Europe.</p>

    </div>

    
    <ul id="priorities" class="subheadings"> 
	<li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/policy/eu/eu.html">Free Software in the European Union</a></h3>
        <p>
          We work with policy makers and public bodies in Europe to enhance the
          rights of Free Software users and developers and to abolish barriers
          to Free Software.
        </p>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Our policy goals for 2014-2019</a></li>
            <li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/eu-activities.html">Our activities</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>


     <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></h3>  
        <p>
	  In our legal team, we collect and share knowledge about
	  legal and licensing aspects of Free Software, safeguard the
	  interests of Free Software projects, connect experts
	  throughout the world and help other groups achieve similar
	  goals. We provide
	  assistance, <a href="/activities/ftf/education.html">training</a>
	  and <a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">documentation</a>,
	  in partnership with gpl-violations.org and members of the
	  European Legal Network.
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="/activities/ftf/network.html">The European Legal Network</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>
       <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/team.html">Public Awareness</a></h3>
        <p>
	  Informing the public about Free Software is part of FSFE's
	  core mission. Many people in the organisation are experts on
	  various Free Software topics, and can be contacted about
	  giving authoritative talks, holding workshops, or
	  participating in discussions.
        </p>
      </li>
            <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a></h3>
        <p>
	  <a href="/activities/os/def.html">Open Standards</a> allow
          people to share all kinds of data freely and with perfect
          fidelity. They prevent lock-in and other artificial barriers
          to interoperability, and promote choice between vendors and
          technology
          solutions. FSFE's <a href="/activities/os/os.en.html">work on
          Open Standards</a> has the goal of making sure that people
          find it easy to migrate to Free Software or between Free
          Software solutions.
        </p>
      </li>
      
      <li>
	<h3><a href="/activities/procurement/procurement.html">Public
	procurement</a></h3>
	<p>
	  Free Software is a perfect fit for the public sector. It brings
	  efficiency to government, transparency to citizens, and competition to
	  business. FSFE works with public bodies throughout Europe to improve
	  public IT procurement and open up opportunities for Free Software.
	</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Software patents in Europe</a></h3>
        <p>
	  Software patents are a menace to society and economy. They
	  restrict innovation, damage businesses and put collaborative
	  creativity in great danger. FSFE fights to keep Europe free
	  of software patents, and works at the UN level to abolish
	  software patents around the world.
        </p>
      </li>

      <!--<li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/policy/eu/eu.html">European Union</a></h3>
        <p>
	  FSFE works with the <a href="/activities/policy/eu/eu.html">European
	  Commission and European Parliament</a> to create a positive
	  environment for Free Software and Open Standards in
	  Europe. We fight against monopolies and for <a href="/campaigns/swpat/novell-cptn.html">competition</a>
	  in the software market by participating as an interested third
	  party
	  in <a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">antitrust</a>
	  cases. We inform policy makers about the opportunities that
	  Free Software offers, and push for interoperability.
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">Microsoft versus European Union citizens</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>-->
     
      


      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/education/education.html">Education</a></h3>
        <p>
          FSFE actively promotes the use of Free Software in schools and
          universities. Free Software is pedagogically superior, its
          basic spirit involving freedom and cooperation is the same
          spirit of education in a democratic environment.
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/un/un.html">United Nations &amp; WIPO</a></h3>
        <p>
	  FSFE has been active at the United Nations level since 2002,
	  helping to create a free and equitable global information
	  society. We hold observer status at the <a
	  href="/activities/wipo/wipo.html">World Intellectual
	  Property Organization</a>.
	</p>
      </li>


   
    <p style="clear: both;">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe has worked on many other issues and
      campaigns. See our <a href="/campaigns/finished.html">Finished And
        Discontinued Projects</a> for details of what we've achieved.
    </p>

    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-01-14 14:08:10 +0100 (jeu. 14 janv. 2010) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
