<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Työmme - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body class="subsite">
    <h1 class="heading">Työmme</h1>
    <div id="introduction">

      <!-- for translations please have a look at http://fsfe.org/about/mission -->
   <p>Free Software Foundation Europe auttaa yksityishenkilöitä ja järjestöjä ymmärtämään, 
   kuinka <a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">vapaat ohjelmistot</a> 
   lisäävät vapautta, läpinäkyvyyttä ja itsemääräämisoikeuksia. 
   Parannamme käyttäjien oikeuksia poistamalla vapaiden ohjelmistojen käyttöönoton esteitä, 
   kannustamme ihmisiä käyttämään ja kehittämään vapaita ohjelmistoja sekä tarjoamme kaikille 
   voimavaroja vapaiden ohjelmistojen jatkuvaan edistämiseen Euroopassa.</p>
       
    </div>

    
    <ul id="priorities" class="subheadings">
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Policy</a></h3>
        <p>
          We work with policy makers and public bodies in Europe to enhance the
          rights of Free Software users and developers and to abolish barriers
          to Free Software.
        </p>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Our policy goals for 2014-2019</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Juridiikka</a></h3>  
        <p>
    Lainopillinen tiimimme kerää ja jakaa tietoa vapaiden ohjelmistojen 
    juridisista piirteistä ja lisenssoinnista, varmistaa vapaiden ohjelmistojen 
    etujen täyttymistä, yhdistää asiantuntijoita eri puolilta maailmaa ja 
    auttaa muita ryhmiä saavuttamaan tavoitteitaan. Tarjoamme opastusta, 
	  <a href="/activities/ftf/education.html">koulutusta</a>
	  ja <a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">ohjeistusta</a>
	  yhteistyössä gpl-violations.org:n European Legal Networkin jäsenten 
    kanssa.
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="/activities/ftf/network.html">The European Legal Network</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>
       <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/team.html">Public Awareness</a></h3>
        <p>
	  Informing the public about Free Software is part of FSFE's
	  core mission. Many people in the organisation are experts on
	  various Free Software topics, and can be contacted about
	  giving authoritative talks, holding workshops, or
	  participating in discussions.
        </p>
      </li>
            <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a></h3>
        <p>
	  <a href="/activities/os/def.html">Open Standards</a> allow
          people to share all kinds of data freely and with perfect
          fidelity. They prevent lock-in and other artificial barriers
          to interoperability, and promote choice between vendors and
          technology
          solutions. FSFE's <a href="/activities/os/os.en.html">work on
          Open Standards</a> has the goal of making sure that people
          find it easy to migrate to Free Software or between Free
          Software solutions.
        </p>
      </li>
 
      <li>
	<h3><a href="/activities/procurement/procurement.html">Public
	procurement</a></h3>
	<p>
	  Free Software is a perfect fit for the public sector. It brings
	  efficiency to government, transparency to citizens, and competition to
	  business. FSFE works with public bodies throughout Europe to improve
	  public IT procurement and open up opportunities for Free Software.
	</p>
      </li>
     
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Software patents in Europe</a></h3>
        <p>
	  Software patents are a menace to society and economy. They
	  restrict innovation, damage businesses and put collaborative
	  creativity in great danger. FSFE fights to keep Europe free
	  of software patents, and works at the UN level to abolish
	  software patents around the world.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/policy/eu/eu.html">Euroopan unioni</a></h3>
        <p>
	  FSFE tekee yhteistyötä <a href="/activities/policy/eu/eu.html">Euroopan komission
	  ja Euroopan parlamentin</a> kanssa luodakseen positiivisen ympäristön 
    vapaille ohjelmistoile ja avoimille standardeille Euroopassa.
	  Taistelemme monopoleja vastaan ja <a href="/campaigns/swpat/novell-cptn.html">kilpailun</a>
    puolesta ohjelmistomarkkinoilla osallistumalla kiinnostuneena kolmantena 
    osapuolena <a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">kartellitapauksissa</a>.
    Jaamme tietoja päättäjille vapaiden ohjelmistojen tarjoamista mahdollisuuksista 
    sekä edistämme järjestelmien yhteentoimivuutta.
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">Microsoft versus European Union citizens</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>
     
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/education/education.html">Education</a></h3>
        <p>
          FSFE actively promotes the use of Free Software in schools and
          universities. Free Software is pedagogically superior, its
          basic spirit involving freedom and cooperation is the same
          spirit of education in a democratic environment.
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/un/un.html">United Nations &amp; WIPO</a></h3>
        <p>
	  FSFE has been active at the United Nations level since 2002,
	  helping to create a free and equitable global information
	  society. We hold observer status at the <a
	  href="/activities/wipo/wipo.html">World Intellectual
	  Property Organization</a>.
	</p>
      </li>
   


    <p style="clear: both;">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe has worked on many other issues and
      campaigns. See our <a href="/campaigns/finished.html">Finished And
        Discontinued Projects</a> for details of what we've achieved.
    </p>

    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-01-14 14:08:10 +0100 (jeu. 14 janv. 2010) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
