<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - What is Free Software?</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>What is Free Software?</h1>

<h2 id="menu">Table of content</h2>

<h2 id="tableofcontents">Table of content</h2>


<ul>

<li>
<a href="#what-is-free-software?">What is Free Software?</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="#terminology">Terminology</a>
</li></ul>

<p>
<span id="what-is-free-software?">
(
<a href="#tableofcontents">go to menu</a>
) [What is Free Software?]
</span>
</p>

<p class="indent">Free in Free Software is referring to freedom, not price. Having been used
  in this meaning since the 80s, the first documented complete definition
  appears to be the GNU's Bulletin, vol. 1 no. 1 [<a name="ref1"
    href="#1">1</a>], published February 1986. In particular, four freedoms
  define [<a name="ref2" href="#2">2</a>] Free Software:</p>

<ul>
<li class="indent"><b>The freedom to run the program, for any purpose.</b>
  <p class="indent"> <em>Placing restrictions on the use of Free Software, such
      as time ("30 days trial period", "license expires January 1st, 2004")
      purpose ("permission granted for research and non-commercial
      use", "may not be used for benchmarking") or
      geographic area ("must not be used in country X") makes a program
      non-free.</em></p>
</li>

<li class="indent"><b>The freedom to study how the program works, and adapt it to
      your needs.</b>
    <p class="indent"> <em>Placing legal or practical restrictions on the
        comprehension or modification of a program, such as mandatory purchase
        of special licenses, signing of a Non-Disclosure-Agreement (NDA) or -
        for programming languages that have multiple forms or representation
      - making the preferred human way of comprehending and editing a program
      ("source code") inaccessible also makes it proprietary (non-free).
      Without the freedom to modify a program, people will remain at the mercy
      of a single vendor.</em></p>
</li>

<li class="indent"><b>The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your
      neighbor.</b>
    <p class="indent"> <em>Software can be copied/distributed at virtually no
        cost. If you are not allowed to give a program to a person in need,
        that makes a program non-free. This can be done for a charge, if you so
        choose.</em></p>
</li>

<li class="indent"><b>The freedom to improve the program, and release your
      improvements to the public, so that the whole community
      benefits.</b>
    <p class="indent"> <em>Not everyone is an equally good programmer in all
        fields. Some people don't know how to program at all. This freedom
        allows those who do not have the time or skills to solve a problem to
        indirectly access the freedom to modify. This can be done for a
        charge.</em></p>
</li>
</ul>

<p class="indent">These freedoms are rights, not obligations, although respecting these
  freedoms for society may at times oblige the individual. Any person can
  choose to not make use of them, but may also choose to make use of all of
  them. In particular, it should be understood that Free Software does not
  exclude commercial use. If a program fails to allow commercial use and
  commercial distribution, it is not Free Software. Indeed a growing number of
  companies base their business model completely or at least partially on Free
  Software, including some of the largest proprietary software vendors. Free
  Software makes it legal to provide help and assistance, it does not make it
  mandatory.</p>

<p>
<span id="terminology">
(
<a href="#tableofcontents">go to menu</a>
) [Terminology]
</span>
</p>

<h3>Terminology</h3>
<p class="indent">English seems to be the only language in which such a strong ambiguity
  exists between freedom and price. When translated into other languages, Free
  Software becomes "logiciels libre" in French, "software libre" in
  Spanish, "software libero" in Italian, "Fri Software" in Danish or
  whatever is the equivalent term in the local language referring to
  freedom. To solve this ambiguity, other names have been proposed, however 
 FSFE still <a href="/about/basics/whyfs.html">endorses the use of "Free software"</a></p>

<b>Open Source</b>
<p class="indent">On February 3rd 1998, in the wake of Netscapes announcement to release their
  browser as Free Software, a group of people met in Palo Alto in the Silicon
  Valley and proposed to start a marketing campaign for Free Software using the
  term ``Open Source.'' The goal was to seek fast commercialisation of Free
  Software and acceptance of Free Software by the companies and venture
  capitalists of the booming new economy. As a means to this end, they made a
  conscious decision to leave aside all long-term issues (such as philosophy,
  ethics and social effects) related to Free Software, feeling these posed
  obstacles in the way of rapid acceptance by economy. They proposed to focus
  on technical advantages only. [<a name="ref3" href="#3">3</a>]</p>

<p class="indent">Often used in good faith by people who refer to what Free Software stands
  for, the term "Open Source" - originally defined to mean the same thing as
  Free Software in terms of licenses and implementation - has seen inflationary
  usage. Nowadays, it is regularly used for everything between Free Software
  and the highly proprietary "Governmental Security Program" (GSP) by
  Microsoft. [<a name="ref4" href="#4">4</a>]</p>

<b>Libre Software</b>
<p class="indent"> When the European Commission started dealing with Free Software on a
  regular basis, they sought to avoid the ambiguity of the English word "Free
  Software" and the misunderstandings of "Open Source" alike, which led to
  the adoption of a third term which has popped up occasionally since around 
  1992: "Libre Software." This term has proven resistant to inflationary usage 
  and is still used in an identical way to Free Software. So it may pose a 
  solution for those who fear being misunderstood when speaking English.</p>

<b>FOSS, FLOSS</b>

The terms of Free and Open Source Software or even Free/Libre Open Source 
Software are inclusive terms which cover both free software and open source 
software in an attempt to reconcile advocates of both sides, despite their 
difference in focus. Proponents of "FLOSS" argue that the term is both translatable
and neutral for it avoids taking sides between free software/libre software 
and open source software. 

<h3>References</h3>

<p class="footnote">[<a name="1" href="#ref1">1</a>] 
<code class="footnote"><a name="ref2" href="http://www.gnu.org/bulletins/bull1.txt">http://www.gnu.org/bulletins/bull1.txt</a> (page 8)</code>
</p>

<p class="footnote">[<a name="2" href="#ref2">2</a>] For the full definition, please see
  <code class="footnote"><a name="ref4" href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html</a></code>
</p>

<p class="footnote">[<a name="3" href="#ref3">3</a>] For reference, see <!--<code class="footnote"--><a
      name="ref6"
      href="http://www.opensource.org/advocacy/faq.html">http://www.opensource.org/advocacy/faq.html</a><!--/code-->:
  <em>How is "open source" related to "free software"?  The Open Source
    Initiative is a marketing program for free software. It's a pitch for
    "free software" on solid pragmatic grounds rather than ideological
    tub-thumping. The winning substance has not changed, the losing attitude
    and symbolism have.</em></p> 

<p class="footnote">[<a name="4" href="#ref4">4</a>] In this program
  governments and intergovernmental organisations pay substantial fees for a
  superficial look at some parts of Windows sourcecode in special Microsoft
  facilities. This may increase "felt security" but is essentially useless -
  especially since they do not even know whether what they looked at is what
  they have on their computers. And of course it does not give them
  freedom.</p>

<p>More information about the importance of Free Software can be found
  <a href="/projects/wsis/fs.html">here</a>.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
