<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - What do we do?</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>What do we do?</h1>

    <ul>

    <li><p>The FSFE is available for everyone as a contact point and
    orientational help on all issues regarding Free Software.</p></li>


    <li><p>The FSFE is lobbying for Free Software by actively offering
    itself as a competence center and seeking the dialog with
    politicians and the press.</p>

    <p>This is pursued on the local and European levels.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSFE works closely together with lawyers active in
    the Free Software area in Universities and practices in order to
    follow and influence the legal discourse.</p>

    <p>Also it cooperates with lawyers throughout Europe to maximise the
    legal security of Free Software.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSFE supports, coordinates and develops projects in the
    Free Software area, especially the GNU Project.</p>

    <p>It also provides computer resources to Free Software developers to
    enable them to continue their developments.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSFE helps companies to develop business models based on
    Free Software or fit existing models to it; it encourages companies
    in their evolution to Free Software.</p>
 
    <p>To make it easier for companies based on Free Software to be
    commercially successful, the FSFE also seeks to broaden the
    market for Free Software.</p></li>

    <li><p>The FSFE helps coordinating and networking other initiatives
    in the Free Software area.</p></li>

    </ul>
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2009-07-09 10:06:27 +0200 (Do, 09. Jul 2009) $ $Author: gollo $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
