<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <meta name="author-name-1" content="Georg C.F. Greve" />
    <meta name="author-link-1" content="/about/greve/greve.html" />
    <meta name="publication-date" content="2001-06-23" />
    <title>FSFE - Why do we exist?</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Why do we exist?</h1>
    <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) was founded in
     2001 as the sister organisation of the Free Software Foundation
     (FSF) in the USA to take care of all aspects of <a href="freesoftware.html">Free Software</a> in
     Europe.</p>

     <p>Several factors made this step necessary.</p>

      <ul>

      <li><p>First of all, Free Software has ceased being an American
      phenomenon, Europe has one of the strongest communities of Free
      Software developers and many considerable projects of the recent
      past have their roots here.</p></li>

      <li><p>Secondly, the dominating perception of software is as a
         purely economic property, which is why it is being treated
         this way by politics and press.</p>

      <p>But software already transcends daily life in an increasing
         manner and becomes a deciding factor. Just as other
         developments in the past of mankind, software develops from
         being an economic to a cultural property with increasing
         presence in everyday life.</p>

      <p>Other than developments that seem to be comparable at first
         glance like printing press, car or telephone, software is
         purely virtual. It can not only be reproduced without loss,
         this reproduction also serves its evolution.</p>

      <p>This makes software have properties that are very different
         from those of other phenomenons in history; the invention of
         software probably has the biggest similarities with the
         discovery of language, writing or science.</p>

      <p>It is essential for the future of mankind that software as a
         cultural property will remain accessible for everyone and is
         preserved in libraries like other knowledge.</p>

      <p>In order to achieve this, a new way of thinking has to be
         established with the decision-makers of the population, the
         politicians. </p>

      <p>To inspire this new way of thinking is a crucial task for the FSF
         Europe.</p>
      </li>

      <li><p>The third objective is securing Free Software.</p>

      <p>The GNU General Public License and GNU Lesser General Public
         License of the Free Software Foundation are the most-often
         licenses used for Free Software worldwide.</p>

      <p>Therefore it is incumbent on the FSF and FSFE to ensure
         the legal safety of the largest part of Free Software.</p>
      </li>

      <li><p>Fourthly the long-term success is based upon the practical realization
         of Free Software.</p>

      <p>Because of this, the FSFE and the FSF work together on
         the organisational aspects of the <a href="gnuproject.html">GNU Project</a>, assist and
         maintain the development of Free Software and support
         companies and people willing to switch to Free Software.</p>
      </li>

      <li><p>And finally software contains an immense commercial
         potential. In order to permanently build the awareness for
         Free Software, it is necessary to also involve the
         economy.</p>

     <p>This means perspectives need to be opened for companies to
        build their business on or around Free Software.</p>

     <p>Offering these perspectives and counseling in their
        application is also a task for the FSFE.</p>
     </li>

     </ul>

     <p>Further considerations on the topic of Free Software can be
     found at: 
        <a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.html</a>
    </p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2011-12-09 21:17:21 +0100 (Fr, 09. Dez 2011) $ $Author: guest-repentinus $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
