<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Legal FAQs</title>
  </head>
<body>

<p id="category"><a href="/freesoftware/legal/legal.html">Legal issues in Free Software</a></p>

<h1>Frequently Asked Questions on Free Software Licensing</h1>

<div id="introduction">
  <p>
    This page aims to cover the most frequently asked questions about
    Free Software (also known as Open Source), copyright, and licensing. Please also look at the <a
    href="https://reuse.software/faq">FAQ page of our REUSE project</a>.
    If your question is not covered, you can consider asking our <a
    href="/activities/licence-questions/licence-questions.html">Licence
    Questions team</a>.
  </p>
</div>

<h2>The Basics</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="#freesoftware">What is Free Software?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#opensource">What is Open Source Software?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#proprietary">What is proprietary software?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#commercial">How can Free Software be used commercially?</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>Copyright</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="#copyright">What is Copyright?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#copy">Can I copy someone else’s work?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#no-license">Can I copy a work that has no copyright notice or license?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#copyrightable">Which files are copyrightable?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#author">What is a copyright holder, and what is an author?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#public-domain">What is public domain?</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>Licensing</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="#license">What is a license?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#software-license">What is a software license?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#license-types">Are there different types of software licenses?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#copyleft">What is copyleft?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#own-license">Can I write my own Free Software license for my work?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#choose-license">What should I consider when choosing a license?</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>License Compatibility</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="#compatibility">What does it mean to say that licenses are compatible?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#use-proprietary">Can code covered by Free Software licenses be used in proprietary software?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#permissive">What are permissive licenses?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#fs-compatibility">Are all Free Software licenses compatible with each other?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#permissive-compatible">What kind of licenses are compatible with permissive licenses?</a></li>
  <li><a href="#copyleft-compatible">Can copyleft licenses be compatible with other Free Software licenses?</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>Free Software</h2>

<h3 id="freesoftware">What is Free Software</h3>

<p>
  A short explanation about Free Software is available <a
  href="/freesoftware/freesoftware.html">here</a>.
</p>

<p>
  The term “Free Software” is a regulated term created by the <a href="https://fsf.org">Free
  Software Foundation</a>. It refers to software that enables its users to
  maintain their control and freedom over how to use such software.
  More specifically, Free Software is defined by users being able to
  enjoy the four essential freedoms: the freedoms to use, to study, to
  share, and to improve the software.
</p>

<h4>Freedom to Use</h4>

<p>
  Installing and running the program is not restricted. Placing
  restrictions on the use of Free Software, such as time ("30 days
  trial period", "license expires January 1st, 2004"), purpose
  ("permission granted for research and non-commercial use", "may not
  be used for benchmarking"), or geographic area ("must not be used in
  country X") makes a program non-free.
</p>

<h4>Freedom to Study</h4>

<p>
  Placing legal or practical restrictions on the comprehension or
  modification of a program, such as mandatory purchase of special
  licenses, signing of a Non-Disclosure-Agreement (NDA) or - for
  programming languages that have multiple forms or representation -
  making the preferred human way of comprehending and editing a program
  ("source code") inaccessible also makes it proprietary (non-free).
  Without the freedom to modify a program, people will remain at the
  mercy of a single vendor.
</p>

<h4>Freedom to Share</h4>

<p>
  Software can be copied/distributed at virtually no cost (i.e. license
  fees and royalties are not permitted). If you are not allowed to give
  a program to a person in need, that makes a program non-free. This
  can be done for a charge, if you so choose.
</p>

<h4>Freedom to Improve</h4>

<p>
  Not everyone is an equally good programmer in all fields. Some people
  don't know how to program at all. This freedom allows those who do
  not have the time or skills to solve a problem to indirectly access
  the freedom to modify. This can be done for a charge.
</p>

<p>
  These freedoms are rights, not obligations, although respecting those
  freedoms for society may at times oblige the individual. Any person
  can choose to not make use of them but may also choose to make use of
  all of them.
</p>

<p>
  Free Software does not exclude commercial use. If a program fails to
  allow commercial use and commercial distribution, it is not Free
  Software. A growing number of companies base their business model
  completely, or at least partially on Free Software, including some of
  the largest proprietary software vendors. Free Software makes it
  legal to provide help and assistance; it does not make it mandatory
  to do so.
</p>

<p>
  Free Software is therefore a matter of liberty, not of price; the
  word “free” in Free Software means “free” as in “free speech”, not as
  in “free beer”.
</p>

<h3 id="opensource">What is Open Source software?</h3>
<p>
  You might have also come across the term “Open Source” software, which was created as 
  a synonym for Free Software in 1998. The term also
  describes the complete set and range of software licenses that give
  users the right to use, study, share, and improve the software. The
  term “Open Source” is regulated by the Open Source Initiative (the OSI), which
  states that “Open Source” (Free Software) doesn't just mean access to the source code, 
  but must comply with the
  <a href="https://opensource.org/osd">following criteria</a>:
</p>

<ul>
  <li>Free Redistribution: The license shall not require a royalty or
  other fee for the distribution by the licensee.</li>
  <li>Source Code must be included</li>
  <li>Derived Works must be permitted</li>
  <li>Integrity of The Author's Source Code: The license may require
  derived works to carry a different name or version number from the
  original software</li>
  <li>No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups</li>
  <li>No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor</li>
  <li>Distribution of License: The rights attached to the program must
  apply to all to whom the program is redistributed without the need
  for execution of an additional license by those parties.</li>
  <li>License Must Not Be Specific to a Product</li>
  <li>License Must Not Restrict Other Software</li>
  <li>License Must Be Technology-Neutral</li>
</ul>

<p>
  You can refer to a <a
  href="https://opensource.org/licenses/category">list of OSI approved Free Software
  licenses here</a>.
</p>

<h3 id="proprietary">What is proprietary software?</h3>

<p>
  Proprietary software is the opposite of Free Software. This term is
  used to refer to software that is distributed under restrictions that
  prevent users from enjoying the <a href="#freesoftware">four
  essential freedoms</a>. Even software that is distributed gratis can
  be considered proprietary, if its restricts users from any of the
  four essential freedoms.
</p>

<p>
  The term “commercial software” is sometimes used carelessly to refer
  to proprietary software. This would be incorrect: as explained below,
  Free Software does not exclude commercial use.
</p>

<h3 id="commercial">How can Free Software be used commercially?</h3>

<p>
  Free Software can be sold, as long as the buyers are not restricted
  from sharing copies of the software after their purchase. Hence,
  requiring a fee for any copy distributed by the user is not
  permitted. Free Software can also be commercialized in other ways,
  such as by selling support, services, and certification. Free
  Software remains free as long as the <a href="#freesoftware">four
  essential freedoms</a> outlined above are afforded to users.
</p>

<h2>Copyright</h2>

<h3 id="copyright">What is copyright?</h3>

<p>
  Copyright is a legal construct that grants someone exclusive rights
  over a creative work. The most important exclusive right is in the
  name: the right to produce copies. Only the copyright holder is
  allowed to reproduce a work and to give new copies of their work to
  third parties. Additionally, the copyright holder has the exclusive
  right to modify the work and to make it publicly available (e.g.
  offering it up for download).
</p>

<p>
  Usually, the author is the copyright owner, but copyright is often
  transferred to the author’s employer, in many cases automatically.
  This is often stated in an employee’s employment contract.
</p>

<p>
  You do not need to do anything to gain copyright. As soon as you make
  a creative work, you (or your employer) inherently possess the
  copyright over it.
</p>

<h3 id="copy">Can I copy someone else’s work?</h3>
<p>
  If someone else has made their work available for you under a Free
  Software license, you can incorporate their work into your project.
</p>

<p>
  When you put the work in one of the files in your project, you should
  add an <em>SPDX-FileCopyrightText</em> tag for the copyright
  holder(s) and an <em>SPDX-License-Identifier</em> tag for the
  license(s) under which the work was made available. You can learn
  more about how to do this with our <a
  href="https://reuse.software">REUSE initiative</a>.
</p>

<h3 id="no-license">Can I copy a work that has no copyright notice or license?</h3>
<p>
  Before you proceed, always first make sure that you can find the
  copyright and licensing information elsewhere. Some projects only
  include this information in the root directory or in their README
  file.
</p>

<p>
  If the work has no license, that means that you do not have the right
  to copy it, or it is in the <a href="#public-domain">public
  domain</a>. If you believe that this is a mistake and the author
  clearly meant for you to be able to copy this work, you should
  contact the author and ask them to license their work. Feel free to
  refer them to our <a href="https://reuse.software">REUSE
  initiative</a> on the best practices to do this.
</p>

<h3 id="copyrightable">Which files are copyrightable?</h3>
<p>
  All files that are original works of authorship are copyrightable. In
  essence. If someone sat down typing their own original thoughts on a
  keyboard, then that person holds copyright over the output. Common
  examples are source code, documentation, audio, and video.
</p>

<p>
  However, there are some edge cases. For example, the program
</p>

  <p><i>print("Hello, user!")</i></p>

<p>
  probably does not meet the threshold of originality because it is too
  trivial. Similarly, data files and configuration files may not meet
  that threshold either.
</p>

<h3 id="author">What is a copyright holder, and what is an author?</h3>
<p>
  In these resources, we maintain a distinction between the copyright
  holder and the author. The author (also known as creator) is the
  person who sat down and created a work. Think of the author as a
  programmer, writer, or artist.
</p>

<p>
  The copyright holder is the person who has the exclusive rights over
  that work. Often the author and the copyright holder are the same.
  However, if the author is being paid by their employer to create a
  work, the employer is the copyright holder.
</p>

<p>
  Keep in mind that in some jurisdictions, the word "author" is often
  used as a synonym for "copyright holder". In other jurisdictions,
  authors maintain some rights over their work even if they are not the
  copyright holder.
</p>

<h3 id="public-domain">What is public domain?</h3>
<p>
  The public domain consists of all the creative work (including
  software) to which no copyright applies. The rights to these works
  may have expired, been expressly waived, or may be inapplicable. As
  rights vary by country and jurisdiction, the <a
  href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">Creative
  Commons CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0) License</a> can be used to waive
  copyright to the extent you may have these rights in your work.
</p>

<p>
  Please note that the <a href="#no-license">absence of a license</a>
  does not make a software free to use. Software is copyrighted by
  default, so unless it has been explicitly and validly placed in the
  public domain, using code without a license may be considered
  copyright infringement.
</p>

<h2>Licensing</h2>

<h3 id="license">What is a license?</h3>
<p>
  One problem with copyright (as it relates to software) is that it
  makes software unshareable by default. A license changes that. A
  license defines the terms under which the copyright holder allows the
  recipient of the license to use (i.e. to run, copy, distribute and/or
  modify) the software. If the license allows the recipient to use,
  study, share, and improve the software, then that software is Free
  Software.
</p>

<h3 id="software-license">What is a software license?</h3>
<p>
  Generally, a license is an authorization to use, release, or
  distribute someone else’s property. This includes intellectual
  property such as a piece of text, a song, or software.
</p>

<p>
  Software licenses tell people how the rights holder (usually the
  author of the software) wants the software to be used and what
  freedoms, or restrictions, the software has. Without a license, any
  use of the software is prohibited by default except in the case of a
  statutory exception to copyright.
</p>

<p>
  Please note that the absence of a license does not make a software
  free to use. Software is copyrighted by default, so unless it has
  been explicitly and validly placed in the <a
  href="#public-domain">public domain</a>, using code without a license
  may be considered copyright infringement.
</p>

<h3 id="license-types">Are there different types of software licenses?</h3>
<p>
  Yes. Software licenses can be classified according to the rights
  granted or retained by the copyright owner. When the owner of a
  software waives all of these rights, the software is in the Public
  Domain. Please note that a complete waiver of copyright may not work
  in all jurisdictions. For such cases, use of the <a
  href="#public-domain">CC0 License</a> achieves this goal practically.
</p>

<p>
  If a software is under a proprietary license, only a few rights are
  granted; for example, the right to use program but not to distribute
  copies of it. If the license grants the four essential freedoms to
  use, study, share and improve the software, it is a Free Software
  license. You can find here lists of Free Software licenses <a
  href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.en.html">evaluated by the Free Software Foundation</a> and <a
  href="https://opensource.org/licenses/category">approved Free Software licenses by the Open Source Initiative</a>. 
  For other license categories, <a
  href="https://github.com/LeChasseur/ifrOSS/blob/master/Lizenzcenter.md">here
  is a list prepared by IfrOSS</a>.
</p>

<h3 id="copyleft">What is copyleft?</h3>
<p>
  Copyleft is a form of Free Software licensing that gives permission
  for a user to enjoy the four freedoms of Free Software, under the
  condition that those freedoms remain intact in further distribution
  of the software or derivative works. That’s why copyleft licenses are
  also called “reciprocal licenses”. This is in contrast to “permissive
  or non-reciprocal” licenses, which, unlike copyleft licenses, allow
  the creation of derivative versions of the software with different
  license terms from the original, which can in some cases result in a
  derivative work being placed under a proprietary license.
</p>

<p>
  In practical terms, having a copyleft license would generally mean
  that the derivative and/or combined work has to be licensed under the
  same license as the original work. As a result, this ensures that a
  copylefted piece of Free Software can remain free, and cannot be
  transformed into proprietary software.
</p>

<p>
  An example of a copyleft license is the <a
  href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html">GNU General Public
  License</a>. Under this license, derivative works can only be
  distributed under the same license terms. This is distinct from
  permissive (non-reciprocal) licenses, which include the commonly used
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT">MIT License</a> and <a
  href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0">Apache License
  2.0</a>.
</p>

<h3 id="own-license">Can I write my own Free Software license for my work?</h3>
<p>
  Anyone can write their own Free Software license to dictate the terms
  and conditions of use of their work. However, we strongly recommend
  you to use an existing well-known license, instead of making up your
  own.
</p>

<p>
  Licenses should be written to apply in complex legal issues, and
  people are more likely to use works under established and existing
  licenses whose legal effects are well known and have been clearly
  documented. The legal effects of a new license would be ambiguous,
  and this would have the effect of discouraging users from adopting
  your software.
</p>

<p>
  Another reason to not write your own license is to prevent license
  proliferation. There are already numerous licenses available with
  very similar terms, which are often incompatible with each other. The
  standardization of license terms can make things easier for everyone.
  Conversely, inventing a new license would make it harder for the
  community to keep track of all available licenses and would be a
  hindrance to developers who simply want to combine code under
  different licenses.
</p>

<h3 id="choose-license">What should I consider when choosing a license?</h3>
<p>
  Having a Free Software license is the best way to protect your
  project’s contributors and users. A license can determine the way
  people contribute to the project and how the software will be used
  and shared.
</p>

<p>
  If you are taking part in a project that has already determined which
  licenses to use, the best way to contribute is to continue using that
  project’s license. Some <a
  href="https://choosealicense.com/community/">communities</a> have
  strong preferences for particular licenses. If you want to
  participate in one of these communities, it will be easier to use the
  preferred license even if you’re starting a brand new project with no
  existing dependencies. However, if you don’t see your project as part
  of a community, you have more flexibility with which Free Software license to
  choose.
</p>

<p>
  There are two objectives to pursue with a Free Software license:
</p>

<ol>
  <li>
    Make the code as simple and permissive as possible. If you plan to
    let people and organisations to use your code in the most simple
    way, lax permissive licenses let people do almost anything they want
    with your project, including to make and distribute closed source
    versions.
  </li>
  <li>
    Protecting the code’s freedom. Copyleft protects software freedom,
    permitting people to do almost anything they want with your
    project, except to distribute proprietary versions.
  </li>
</ol>

<h2>License Compatibility</h2>

<h3 id="compatibility">What does it mean to say that licenses are compatible?</h3>

<p>
  When your project combines two pieces of Free Software into one, or
  merges code from one into another, it is important to pay attention
  to whether the licenses of each software or code allow this
  combination, or prohibit it. If the licenses allow it, the licenses
  can be said to be “compatible” with one another.
</p>

<p>
  If they prohibit it, the licenses can be said to be “incompatible”
  with one another. In other words, we say that several licenses are
  compatible with each other if if it possible to combine code under
  these different licenses, while still complying with the terms and
  conditions of all of these licenses. It is therefore important that,
  when you incorporate existing code from a third party, you ensure
  that the license of that third party code is compatible with the
  license that you intend to issue your software project under.
</p>

<p>
  Being compatible also means that code under one Free Software license
  can be combined with code under another, and the resulting software
  can be distributed under either Free Software license without
  violating the terms of the other.
</p>

<p>
  Using incompatible licenses may result in copyright infringement.
</p>

<h3 id="use-proprietary">Can code covered by Free Software licenses be used in proprietary software?</h3>

<p>
  Generally, Free Software licenses allow anyone to modify the code
  covered, and to redistribute it in both its original and modified
  form. In principle, this could result in redistribution of the code
  and its derivative works under a proprietary license.
</p>

<h3 id="permissive">What are permissive licenses?</h3>

<p>
  Permissive Free Software licenses (also known as non-copyleft
  licenses) allow their code to be used in proprietary derivative
  works. In such a case, the derivative work will still be proprietary,
  not withstanding that it contains code from a source that is covered
  by a Free Software license. Examples of permissive licenses that
  allow covered code to be used in proprietary derivative works include
  the Apache license, the MIT license, and BSD licenses.
</p>

<p>
  Conversely, copyleft licenses like the GNU General Public Licenses (GPL) require that any derivative work must be distributed under the same terms, and be Free Software as well.
</p>

<h3 id="fs-compatibility">Are all Free Software licenses compativle with each other?</h3>

<p>
  No. While all of the commonly-used permissive Free Software licenses
  are compatible with each other, copyleft licenses (that do not allow
  their covered code to be used in proprietary software) can and are
  prone to creating license incompatibilities, depending on each unique
  situation and the licenses involved.
</p>

<h3 id="permissive-compatible">What kind of licenses are compatible with permissive licenses?</h3>

<p>
  Probably all permissive licenses are compatible with each other, as
  they do not contain inconsistent provisions. Different license
  conditions must be met cumulatively.
</p>

<h3 id="copyleft-compatible">What kind of licenses are compatible with permissive licenses?</h3>

<p>
  Because copyleft licenses provide that derivative works may only be
  used under the same license conditions, copyleft licenses are only
  compatible with other Free Software licenses when one of the following
  conditions is met:
</p>

<ol>
  <li>
    The other Free Software license does not contain any license
    requirements that are not provided by the compatible copyleft
    license. This is the case with the BSD license without an
    advertising clause, whereas the BSD license with an advertising
    clause contains an information requirement that the GPL and other
    copyleft licenses do not provide.
  </li>

  <li>
    The other Free Software license contains a special compatibility or
    opening clause. This is the case for example in sec. 3 of the LGPL
    Version 2.1, that permits the use of LGPL code under the GPL. GPLv3
    contains a compatibility clause for the Affero GPL and opening
    clauses for Apache license 2.0 and other licenses. The European
    Public License (EUPL) and German free software license (d-fsl)
    contain compatibility clauses for the GPL.
  </li>
</ol>


  </body>

</html>
