<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Information for Webmasters - FSFE</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <p id="category"><a href="/contribute/">Contribute</a></p>
    <h1>Webmastering</h1>
    
    <p id="introduction">
      The <em>Web team </em> maintain and develop the FSFE's websites —
      ranging from <a href="/">fsfe.org</a> to project and campaign
      sites.  Webmasters are volunteers working to enhance the
      organization's face to the world, and to improve the technical
      solutions of our web efforts.
    </p>
    
    
    <h2>Get to know us, get to know the website</h2>
    
    <p>
    If you want to get an idea of what work on FSFE's website consists
    of, the best way is to come have a chat with us. Some of the
    webmasters are regularly on freenode's #fsfe channel, where we
    will be happy to meet you and answer your questions!
    To check out who is working on the website, and with
    FSFE as a whole, visit <a href="/about/team.html">
    our team page</a>.
    </p>
    
    <p>
    Your web coordinators, <a
    href="/about/jean/jean.en.html">Nicolas Jean</a>
    and <a href="http://sny.no/">Andreas Tolf Tolfsen</a>.
    </p>
    
    
    <h2>Introduction</h2>

    <p>
      The technologies and programs used to maintain the FSFE web page
      should already be familiar to many developers and authors and might be of
      interest to those that have not yet discovered them.
    </p>

    <p>
      Translators and occasional volunteers will most likely only get in touch
      with
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XHTML">XHTML</a> – from
        which the web pages are generated
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="http://subversion.tigris.org/">Subversion</a> – for
        version control of web page sources
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="http://trac.edgewall.org/">Trac</a> – for access
        permission management, issue tracking and other related
        services.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Volunteers interested in getting deeper into the maintenance should also
      be familiar with
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="http://www.perl.org/">Perl</a> – for the maintenance
        and page creation scripts
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="http://www.apache.org/">Apache</a> – as the web server
      </li>
    </ul>


    <h2 id="Understanding">Understanding how the web pages are built</h2>

    <p>
      The web pages of <var>fsfe.org</var> are maintaned as a set of
      XML files.  The web server generates the HTML pages from these XML files
      automatically every ten minutes.  Consequently, all editing of the pages
      is done in the XML files, and the HTML is never edited directly.
    </p>

    <p>
      Every page on fsfe.org is named
      <var><em>pagename</em>.<em>language</em>.html</var>
      (<em>language</em> being the two-letter <a
      href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes">ISO-639
      code</a> of the language, like "en" for English or "de" for German).
      The source files are named
      <var><em>pagename</em>.<em>language</em>.xhtml</var>.
    </p>

    <p>
      Some pages have a dynamic part: apart from the fixed texts taken
      from the XHTML file, they include information from one or several
      XML files.  Whenever such a page is built, the build system takes
      the translated XML files where available, and falls back to the
      English version of those XML files that have not yet been
      translated.  This way, such pages can end up with parts of the
      text being translated and other parts still showing in English.
      Examples of such pages include the <a href="/">start page</a>, the
      <a href="/news/">news page</a>, and the <a href="/events/">events
      page</a>.
    </p>


    <h2 id="Getting">Getting access to the web pages</h2>

    <p>
      The source files for the web pages are stored on the <a
        href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/browser">fsfe-web subversion
      repository</a>, hosted on the FSFE subversion server.  Other
      services are available on the related <a
      href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web">trac instance</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      To have access to these tools, just follow these instructions:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          If you are a <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellow of
            the FSFE</a> you already have read access to subversion and
          trac, just log in with your usual Fellowship username and
          password.
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>
          Everyone else can register a guest account for the subversion
          and trac, using the web form at <a
          href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/register">https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/register</a>.
          As soon as you register, you'll have read access to the
          subversion repository and you can log into the trac site (please
          note that a <var>guest-</var> prefix will be added to the
          username you choose).
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      To have write access to the subversion repository, and the
      trac wiki and ticket system, just write to
      <a
      href="mailto:system-hackers@fsfeurope.org">system-hackers@fsfeurope.org</a>
    </p>


    <h3 id="Checking">Checking out a SVN branch to work on</h3>
    
    <p>
      The subversion repository has two main code bases for the FSFE
      website, the <a
      href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/browser/trunk">SVN
        <em>trunk</em></a>, which is used to build the production instance
      of the website at <a href="http://fsfe.org/">http://fsfe.org/</a>, and
      the <a
        href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/browser/branches/test"><em>test</em>
        branch</a>, which is used to build <a
        href="http://test.fsfe.org/">http://test.fsfe.org/</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      For day-to-day work, like adding news items, translating pages (or
      even developing small changes to the website) you will need to
      check out the SVN trunk:
    </p>

    <p class="terminal">svn --username <var>YOUR_FELLOWSHIP_NAME</var> co https://svn.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/trunk</p>

    <p>
      To work on major changes to the website, including debugging new
      features that could potentially break the site, you are encouraged
      to check out the <em>test</em> branch of the SVN repository:
    </p>

    <p class="terminal">svn --username <var>YOUR_FELLOWSHIP_NAME</var> co https://svn.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/branches/test</p>

    <p>
      Please note that a full working copy will require about 160M; if
      you only plan to work on part of the website, you can check out
      only the directories that you are interested in.  You can <a
        href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/browser">browse the SVN
        tree</a> online to find out what you are interested in.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      To checkout the Document Freedom Day SVN, use:
    </p>
    
    <p class="terminal">svn --username <var>YOUR_FELLOWSHIP_NAME</var> co https://svn.fsfe.org/df-web/trunk</p>

    <h2 id="Working">Working with the repository</h2>

    <p>
      In subversion, <a
      href="http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.5/svn.advanced.props.special.keywords.html">keyword
      substitution</a> must be enabled explicitely on every file. Since we
      use some keywords on <var>.xml</var> and <var>.xhtml</var> files (for
      example the <var>$</var><var>Author</var><var>$</var> keyword on the
      page footer), you should automate enabling keywords adding
      the following snippet to your <var>~/.subversion/config</var>
      file:
    </p>

    <pre class="file">
enable-auto-props = yes

[auto-props]
*.xml = svn:keywords=Date Author Id Revision;svn:mime-type=text/xml;svn:eol-style=native
*.xhtml = svn:keywords=Date Author Id Revision;svn:mime-type=text/xhtml;svn:eol-style=native
    </pre>    <p>

      After you checked out the repository the first time, you should
      execute
    </p>

    <p class="terminal">$ svn update</p>

    <p>
      every time before you work on a specific file.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      If you want to add new files or directories to the repository you have to
      execute
    </p>

    <p class="terminal">$ svn add <em>filename</em></p>

    <p>
      To enable keyword substitution for a new file, execute
    </p>

    <p class="terminal">$ svn propset svn:keywords "Date Author Id Revision" <em>filename</em></p>

    <p>
      To post your changes to the server, no matter be it a new file or a
      modification in an existing file, execute
    </p>

    <p class="terminal">$ svn commit <em>filename</em></p>

    <p>
      and your default editor will open to allow for some description of your
      changes.
    </p>

    <p>
      If you are used to work with CVS, you will easily start working with SVN; as
      you have noticed, the basic commands are very similar. To learn more, you
      can see an overview of the differences between CVS and SVN at 
      <a href="http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.5/svn.forcvs.html">Subversion for
      CVS Users</a>, and a quick reference comparison of CVS and SVN commands at
      <a
      href="http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/subversion/trunk/doc/user/cvs-crossover-guide.html">CVS to SVN Crossover Guide</a>
    </p>

    <p>
      You can download a detailed manual for SVN at the <a
      href="http://svnbook.red-bean.com/">Subversion book</a> page
      (we are using the 1.5 release of SVN).
    </p>


    <h2 id="Coordination">Coordination tools</h2>

    <p>
      The work on the website pages is coordinated on the <a
      href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web">Webmasters mailing
      list</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      The <a href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web">fsfe-web trac instance</a>
      provides some further tools to help coordination: a SVN repository web
      browser, an issue tracking system and a wiki.
    </p>

    <p>
      You can find out more about using trac at the <a
      href="https://trac.fsfe.org/fsfe-web/wiki/TracGuide">TracGuide</a> wiki
      page.
    </p>

    <p>
      If you want to keep track with all commits that are done to the web page
      sources, you can also subscribe to the <a
      href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web-cvs-notify">commit
      notification mailing list</a> and you will get a mail for every change
      posted to the source tree.
    </p>


    <h2 id="Responsible">Responsible handling of write access</h2>

    <p>
      If you have write access to the web pages, please subscribe to the <a
      href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web">Webmasters mailing
      list</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      Please bear in mind that all your changes will become effective and
      visible automatically, without any further action of anybody.
      Consequently, there are a few things we would request you to do whenever
      you commit changes or new files:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          The FSFE is held responsible for the content of the web pages.
          Please do not commit modifications that change the meaning of the
          text without approval from a <a href="/about/members.html">core team
          member of the FSFE</a>.  (This is not necessary for translations of
          already existing content.)
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>

        <p>
          If you are posting translations, and there is any chance that others
          can proofread it, use that chance.  You can use the <a
          href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Translators
          mailing list</a> to ask for proofreading.  Whether you are
          translating files or proofreading them, you are encouraged to
          spell-check files using some automated tools, such as GNU aspell,
          ispell, or your favourite spell-checker.  For example, to use <a
          href="http://aspell.net/">GNU aspell</a> on a Debian GNU/Linux
          system, just install the packages <em>aspell</em> and
          <em>aspell-<strong>XX</strong></em> (where "XX" is your language
          code), then run the command
        </p>

        <p class="terminal">
          aspell -H -d <em>language</em> -c file.xhtml
        </p>

        <p>
          where "language" is the name of the dictionary for your language; the
          <var>-d</var> option can be omitted if your UNIX locale is the same
          as the language of the dictionary).
        </p>

      </li>

      <li>

        <p>
          Make sure that all files are proper XML. By default, the SVN server
          will check the XML syntax of files with .xml and .xhtml extensions, and
          will forbid the commit if XML errors are found. To avoid this, you can
          check your files before committing them, in one of the following ways.
        </p>
        <p>
          There is a script named
          <var>/trunk/tools/validate.pl</var> that helps finding errors in the
          markup.  Improper XML breaks the automatic build process of the web
          pages and blocks updates for the complete FSFE website.  If you
          suspect the build process to broken, you can <a
          href="http://status.fsfe.org/">view the log of the last build
          run</a> on our <a href="http://status.fsfe.org/">status
          pages</a>.
        </p>

        <p>
          The <var>validate.pl</var> script requires the <em>XML::LibXML</em>
          Perl module; if this is not installed on your system, you can
          validate files using your favourite XML validator.  For example you
          can use the command line <em>xmllint</em> utility from the <a
          href="http://xmlsoft.org/"><em>libxml2</em> project</a>.
        </p>
       
        <p>
          If you are using the Debian GNU/Linux distribution, install the
          <em>libxml2-utils</em> package; run the command
        </p>

        <p class="terminal">xmllint --noout <em>file</em>.xhtml</p>

        <p>
          where <em>file</em> specifies the file you want checked, and watch
          for possible error messages.
        </p>

      </li>
      
      <li>

        <p>
          Make sure the encoding of the file is consistent with the content of
          the "encoding" attribute declared in the first line of the file. For
          example, if your file is encoded as "iso-8859-1" (also known as
          "latin-1" encoding), the first line of the file should read
        </p>

        <p class="file">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?&gt;</p>

        <p>
          Another valid encoding is the unicode, or "UTF-8" encoding.  If you
          want to change the encoding of a file, you can use the standard
          <em>iconv</em> utility, as in the following example (which converts a
          file from the "latin1" to the "utf-8" encoding):
        </p>

        <p class="terminal">iconv -f LATIN1 -t UTF8 <em>inputfile</em> &gt; <em>outputfile</em></p>

      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Please coordinate with other people who also have SVN commit access to
      make sure that translations and fixes contributed by people without
      commit access are committed properly after they have been proofread.  Of
      course, please check these files before you commit them like you check
      your own files.
    </p>
    
    <h2>Licensing of Source Code</h2>
    <p>
      Whenever you introduce either server side program code (i.e. PHP, Perl) or java script code to the website, please make sure you comply with our licensing policies. Specifically this means:
      <ul>
        <li>When writing scripts on behalf of FSFE, please put them under <a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html">AGPLv3+</a> (That is AGPL 3.0 with the addition "or any later version")</li>
        <li>When introducing scripts from 3rd parties, please make sure they are under a Free Software License listed on <a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html">http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html</a></li>
    <li>When you write scripts for FSFE (but are not employed by FSFE) we would prefer to have the script licensed under AGPLv3+, GPLv3+, LGPLv3+, Apache 2.0 or CC0, licensing the code under a Free Software License is mandatory for FSFE in order to deploy it.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    
    <h2>Use custom licensed media</h2>
    
    <p>
      If you use images or other media which which has been licensed using a 
      Creative Commons license or another license, you can make sure that the 
      proper licensing information is displayed by adding these at the end of
      the document before &#60;/html&#62;. Here are three examples:
    </p>
    
    <pre class="file">

&#60;legal type="cc-license"&#62;
  &#60;license&#62;https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/&#60;/license&#62;
  &#60;notice&#62;This work is published under the Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0 Unported license by John Doe&#60;/notice&#62;
&#60;/legal&#62;


&#60;legal&#62;
  &#60;license&#62;http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl-1.3.txt&#60;/license&#62;
  &#60;notice&#62;This page is published under the GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or later&#60;/notice&#62;
&#60;/legal&#62;

&#60;legal&#62;
  &#60;notice&#62;This work is published undere the CC-BY-SA 3.0 Unported license or the &#60;a href="http://artlibre.org/"&#62;Licence Art Libre 1.3&#60;/a&#62; at your option, etc.&#60;/notice&#62;
&#60;/legal&#62;


    </pre>
    
    <h2>Tags: articles metadata for authorship, date. Fetch tagged news and events, implement a country page</h2>
    
    <p>
      Please see <a href="/contribute/web/tagging.html">the dedicated howto</a> for this purpose.
    </p>


    <!-- This is largely outdated
    <h2>Further information</h2>

    <p>
      There is a <a href="http://www.texinfo.org"
      target="_blank">Texinfo</a> documentation file <em><a href="/README.texi"
      target="_blank">Webmastering FSFE</a></em> by <a
      href="mailto:oberg@fsfeurope.org">Jonas Öberg</a>, who implemented the
      website build system.  Please read it to know more about how the web
      pages work.
    </p>
    -->

    <h2>Other FSFE websites</h2>
    
    <p>
      Besides the main fsfe.org website, volunteers are welcome to contribute to other FSFE
      and Fellowship websites; you can find more information about these on the 
      <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/FellowshipHacks" target="_blank">FSFE wiki</a>.
    </p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
