<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2011-03-30">
  <head>
    <title>Tagesschau.de awarded for the use of Open Standards</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>Tagesschau.de awarded for the use of Open Standards</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">Today the ARD internet platform Tagesschau.de will
    receive an award for the use of Open Standards at the "<a
      href="http://documentfreedom.org/index.en.html">Document Freedom
      Day</a>". The prize is awarded by the Free Software Foundation Europe
    (FSFE) and the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure e.V. (FFII)
    for offering the broadcasted shows also in the free video format "<a
      href="http://theora.org/">Ogg Theora</a>".</p>

    <p>In Berlin <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a> and <a
      href="http://www.ffii.org">FFII</a> will hand over a certificate and a
    cake with the "rOgg On!" label on to Sven Bruns, technical manager at
    tagesschau.de. In Hamburg, Sabine Klein, vice editorial director of
    tagesschau.de will accept a DFD cake on behalf of the editorial team.</p>

    <p>"In times of non-free video formats still dominating the internet,
    tagesschau.de is an example for other broadcasting corporations how to
    provide unrestricted access to their media.", says <a
      href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.html">Matthias Kirschner</a>,
    Germany-Coordinator of FSFE.</p>
    
    <p>In contrast to proprietary video formats Ogg Theora is free video format
    that every software producer is allowed to support without licensing
    requirements.  Therefore software users are not dependent on a single
    software vender but can apply Ogg Theora on various devices.</p>
    
    <p>Stephan Uhlmann, member of the FFII board: "It's convenient to support
    the currently dominating format instead of using Open Standards. But this
    domination brings along patents whose exclusive control disables
    alternative software solutions and later innovations. In contrast to this
    users of Open Standards have free choice of their software. But no matter
    whether Apple, Microsoft or GNU/Linux: the videos of tagesschau.de will
    always be playable."</p>

    <p>Ogg Theora is supported by all media players in common GNU/Linux
    distributions. One can also play Ogg-files on Microsoft Windows or Apple's
    Mac OS X by using the VLC player. Furthermore, many modern webbrowsers
    directly support the format.</p>
    
    <p>On tagesschau.de, all regular videos are available as Ogg Theora.  At <a
      href="http://www.tagesschau.de/tagesschau24/">tagesschau24</a>, videos
    are directly embedded via the new webstandard HTML5.  In other parts of the
    website, it still needs to be manually set to "download the file" and then
    the format "Medium (Ogg)" has to be clicked.</p>

    <p>"We hope that all other multimedia contents – especially the media
    library and live streams – will soon be available in a free format.
    Moreover we would be glad about Ogg Theora or <a
      href="http://www.webmproject.org/">WebM videos</a> in higher quality
    levels", indicates Matthias Kirschner.</p>
    
    <p>Press pictures of the award ceremony will be available March 30. at 2pm.
    <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/DFD-2011-Berlin-Hamburg-Bilder">on a separate
      site</a>.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$Author: rolf_camps $</timestamp>

  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>de</tag>
    <tag>dfd</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
