<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-07-18">
 <head>
		<title>FSFE welcomes new Vice President, Legal Coordinator</title>
 </head>
 <body>
 
  <h1>FSFE welcomes new Vice President, Legal Coordinator</h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">
  At FSFE's General Assembly which took place in Ljubljana, Slovenia, on
  June 11, FSFE's members elected Henrik Sandklef as the organisation's
  Vice President. A computer scientist and GNU Hacker from Gothenburg,
  Sweden, Henrik has been active with FSFE since 2005. He takes over
  from Fernanda Weiden, who held the volunteer position for the past two
  years.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  "It's great to be working side by side with Henrik. With one foot in
  the hacker community, the other in education, and a keen interest in
  software freedom, he is exactly the right person to support our work,"
  says FSFE's President Karsten Gerloff.  The General Assembly also
  confirmed Karsten Gerloff as FSFE's President and Reinhard Müller as
  Financial Officer.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  FSFE's legal team has expanded with the addition of Matija Šuklje as
  full time Coordinator, an expansion of his previous duties as
  volunteer Deputy Coordinator.  "This is an excellent opportunity to
  build on the success of FSFE's legal work and our facilitation of the
  European Legal Network," says Matija, "I look forward to working
  closely with our partners to ensure clear, useful and timely legal
  knowledge and support is readily available to everyone using Free
  Software."  
  </p>
  
  <p>
  Matija is replacing Shane Coughlan, who assumes the role of Senior
  Advisor after five years managing and supporting FSFE's legal
  affairs. "I'm extremely grateful to Shane for the work he has done in
  building up FSFE's legal department, this team and the legal network,"
  says Karsten Gerloff.  
  </p>
  
  <p>
  In the German country team, FSFE co-founder Bernhard Reiter passed on
  the torch after helping to build up the team for a decade. He iis
  replaced in the post of deputy coordinator by Torsten Grote.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  "Bernhard has done a tremendous job for ten years," says Matthias
  Kirschner, the team's coordinator. "Without his deep understanding of
  Free Software, his analytical mind and business sense, this team --
  and FSFE as a whole -- would not be what they are today."
  </p>
 
 </body>
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
