<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Information for Translators - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article" id="translators">
    <p id="category"><a href="/contribute/">Contribute</a></p>
    <h1>Translations</h1>

    <p id="introduction" class="p-summary">
      Free Software Foundation Europe is an international organisation.
      Our goal is to <strong>reach as many people as possible</strong>
      and include them in our activities to promote, help and support
      the Free Software movement.  To achieve this, we want to make our
      published texts and website available in several languages.
    </p>

    <p>
      A major part of the translation effort applies to the web pages,
      especially the frequently updated pages like the <a href="/">front
      page</a>, the <a href="/news/">news page</a> and the <a
        href="/events/">events page</a>. But not only web pages have to be translated:  <a
        href="/press/">Press releases</a>, <a
        href="/news/newsletter.html">newsletters</a>, <a
        href="/contribute/spreadtheword.html#promo-material">brochures and leaflets</a>
      and other texts also become more wide-spread with every additional
      language they are available in.
    </p>

    <p>
      This page gives you a rough overview of our translation processes. More detailed information how to contribute translations can be found on our <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/Mainpage/Translations">translators' wiki pages</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>Priorities</h2>

    <p>
      As FSFE is active in many different countries, texts are also
      often written in different languages.  However, we generally use
      English as a starting point for sharing these texts with other
      parts of the organisation and for further translations.
      Therefore, we especially need help to
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>translate from other languages <em>to</em> English,</li>
      <li>proofreading English texts written by non-native English
        speakers, and</li>
      <li>translating from English to other languages.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Experience shows that the best translation results are achieved
      when people translate from a foreign language to their mother
      tongue.  Having a good idea about <a href="/about/">what the
        FSFE is</a> and about <a href="/about/principles.html">our
        concepts and values</a> is a good idea before starting
      translating.  To help you out with difficult words and phrases, we
      maintain a <a
        href="/contribute/translators/wordlist.html">wordlist in over 15
        languages</a> that you can rely on when facing technical
      terminology or just standard ways of expressing oneself when
      speaking on behalf of FSFE.
    </p>

    <h2>Coordination</h2>

    <p>
      Translations are generally coordinated on the <a
        href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">translators
        mailing list</a>, and everyone wanting to contribute to
      translations efforts can subscribe to this list.  It is also a place
      to seek help when in doubt or cooperating with other translators on
      larger projects.  As we have material available in over 30
      languages already, the chance is that you will always find
      somebody in the organization willing to help you.
    </p>

    <p>
      Texts to be translated or proofread are sent to this list along
      with a reference to the desired languages.  Whoever starts with a
      translation sends an answer to the list to avoid duplicate work.
      Finished translations are also sent to the list to allow others to
      proofread the translation and propose possible improvements.  Both
      original texts and translations are usually sent around as plain
      text file attachments to minimize copy and paste efforts.
    </p>

    <p>
      Ideally, the translation team for a specific language has several
      members that relieve and support each other, so translations to
      a language would not depend on a single person.
    </p>

    <h2>Your contribution makes a difference!</h2>

    <p>
      Many of our translators are already active in other Free Software
      projects in addition to FSFE.  Helping with translation efforts in
      the FSFE strengthens the Free Software community at large and gives
      people, no matter the language or nationality, a chance of learning
      more about Free Software.
    </p>

    <p>
      Translating and proofreading texts is a precious contribution to the work
      of the FSFE and an excellent chance to spontaneously take part in
      the activities of the FSFE without long-term obligations.
    </p>

    
    <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/Mainpage/Translations">Translating for web</a></h3>
        <p>
          How to translate <em>fsfe.org</em>, <em>freeyourandroid.org</em>, <em>pdfreaders.org</em>, and <em>drm.info</em>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="/contribute/translators/wordlist.html">Wordlist</a></h3>
        <p>
          Words and expressions commonly used in the FSFE.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Mailing
          list</a></h3>
        <p>
          Coordination and help on translation efforts.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Translation Teams</h2>
    
    <p>
    	If you require more information regarding our translation activities
    	and do not feel confident in public, you are welcome to contact the
    	translation coordinators. Information about the various language-specific teams can be found on the <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Teams/Translators/">translators' wiki pages</a>.
    </p>

    <div id="team" class="section grid-100">
    	<translation-coordinators-list />
    </div>
  </body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe">
  <div id="related-content">
    <h3>Quick Links:</h3>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/Mainpage/Translations">How to translate</a> fsfe.org, freeyourandroid.org, pdfreaders.org, and drm.info
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="/contribute/translators/wordlist.html">Wordlists and expressions</a> commonly used in the FSFE.
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Mailing list</a> for coordination and help
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Teams/Translators/">The translation teams</a> in our wiki
      </li>
      <li>
        <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/web/web.html">Information on webmastering</a> for translators who want to have a better understanding of our website system
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</sidebar>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
