<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>
      FSF Europe - Contribute - Information for translators - Web pages
    </title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Translating web pages</h1>

    <h2>Understanding how the web pages are built</h2>

    <p>
      The web pages of www.fsfeurope.org are maintaned as a set of XML files.
      The web server generates the HTML pages from these XML files
      automatically every even hour. Consequently, all editing of the pages is
      done in the XML files, and the HTML is never edited directly.
    </p>

    <p>
      Every page on www.fsfeurope.org is named
      "<i>pagename</i>.<i>language</i>.html" (<i>language</i> being the
      2-letter iso-639 code of the language, like "en" for English or "de" for
      German). The source files are named
      "<i>pagename</i>.<i>language</i>.xhtml".<br />
      Some pages have a dynamic part: apart from the fixed texts taken from the
      .xhtml file, they include information from one or several .xml files.
      Whenever such a page is built, the build system takes the translated .xml
      files where available, and falls back to the English version of those
      .xml files that have not yet been translated. This way, such pages
      can end up with parts of the text being translated and other parts still
      showing in English. Examples of such pages include the
      <a href="/index.html">start page</a>, the
      <a href="/news/news.html">news page</a>, and the
      <a href="/events/events.html">events page</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>Everybody can contribute translations</h2>

    <p>
      All source files (i.e. all .xhtml and .xml files) are publicly available
      for download, so everybody can spontaneously contribute a translation
      without having to register anywhere. However, whenever you start a
      translation and expect it to take longer, please write a short note to
      the <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Translators
        mailing list</a> to avoid that somebody else starts to work on the same
      text simultaneously.
    </p>

    <h3>Contributing missing translations</h3>

    <p>
      If you have a page open in your web browser that has not yet been
      translated to your language, scroll to the end of the page, click on the
      "[XHTML]" link and save the file you get there. You will get the English
      .xhtml file. Rename the file to carry your language code instead of the
      "en" code, and open it in a text editor. Now, translate all text in the
      file that is outside the "&lt;...&gt;" marks; do not change anything
      inside these marks.
    </p>

    <p>
      At the end of the file there will by a line saying "&lt;/html&gt;".
      Immediately <i>above</i> this line, add a line saying
      "&lt;translator&gt;<i>your name</i>&lt;/translator&gt;".
    </p>

    <p>
      When you are done, send the translated file to the
      <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Translators
        mailing list</a>. Other members of this list can proofread the
      translation, and somebody on that list will ultimately post it to the
      server.
    </p>

    <h3>Updating outdated translations</h3>

    <p>
      If you have a page open in your web browser of which the translation is
      outdated (indicated by a note at the top of the page), scroll to the end
      of the page, click on the "[XHTML]" link and save the file you get there.
      This file is the (outdated) translated version. Next, use the "English"
      link at the top of the page to jump to the English version of the page
      and click on the "[XHTML]" link there, too. The file you get there is the
      (up to date) English version. Now you can compare both files and update
      the translation. Please notice that everything inside the "&lt;...&gt;"
      marks may not be translated.
    </p>

    <p>
      When you are done, send the translated file to the
      <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Translators
        mailing list</a>. Other members of this list can proofread the
      translation, and somebody on that list will ultimately post it to the
      server.
    </p>

    <h3>Finding out what needs work</h3>

    <p>
      There is an
      <a href="http://status.fsfeurope.org/web/translations.html">autogenerated
        list of all languages</a> available. On that page, each language code
      is a link to a separate page that lists all outdated and missing
      translations for that language.
    </p>

    <p>
      The list of outdated translations provides an extra feature helpful for
      updating: you can not only downlad the (outdated) translated file and the
      (up to date) English original; you can also view the changelog of both
      files, a protocol of all modifications done to the respective file.
      Comparing the two changelogs usually makes it easy to find out which
      parts of the original were altered since the translation was last
      updated.
    </p>

    <p>
      This translation status page is also the only way to download the .xml
      files that are built into the dynamic pages, like files containing news
      items or event entries.
    </p>

    <h3>Downloading the complete source file tree with CVS</h3>

    <p>
      If it is possible for you to use CVS, you can also download the complete
      source file tree at once.
    </p>

    <p>
      Create a directory in which you want to store the files, change into that
      directory and issue the command<br />
      <code>$ cvs -z3 -d anoncvs@savannah.gnu.org:/webcvs/fsfe co .</code><br />
      When you are asked for a password, just hit the Return key.
    </p>

    <p>
      To update a source tree you previously downloaded that way, you can use
      the command<br />
      <code>$ cvs -z3 update -Pd</code><br />
    </p>

    <h2>Registering at savannah</h2>

    <p>
      The source files for the web pages are stored on
      <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/">Savannah</a>, a server hosted by the
      Free Software Foundation North America. If you intend to contribute
      translations regularly and have some basic understanding of CVS and SSH,
      you can create an account on that server and get direct access to the
      source files.
    </p>

    <h3>Registering a new account</h3>

    <p>
      Follow
      <a href="https://savannah.gnu.org/account/register.php">this link</a> to
      register a new account. Choose a login name, a password, fill in your
      real name and your e-mail address and click on the "Submit" button.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Now you will now receive a email from savannah. In order to complete your
      registration, visit the URL mentionend there. Accounts not confirmed
      after two days are deleted from the database.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      After confirming your account, you can log in at
      <a href="https://savannah.gnu.org/">https://savannah.gnu.org</a> with
      your login name and your password.
    </p>

    <h3>Creating an SSH key</h3>

    <p>
      While you can use the password to log into the web portal on Savannah,
      you have to register an SSH key to get CVS access. This has to be done on
      every machine from where you will access the CVS repository.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      To create and register an SSH key, please follow the
      <a href="https://savannah.gnu.org/faq/?group_id=5802&amp;question=User_Account_-_How_do_I_configure_my_SSH_access.txt">instructions
        given in the Savannah FAQ</a>.
    </p>

    <h3>Joining the FSFE project</h3>

    <p>
      There are a lot of projects hosted on Savannah, and CVS access is granted
      on a per-project basis. To get access to the FSFE web page source files,
      you have to become a member of the FSFE project.
    </p>

    <p>
      Choose "Group Membership" in the top tabs. Now you can enter "FSFE" into
      the search box of "Request for Inclusion", activate the FSF Europe check
      box and enter a comment.
    </p>

    <p>
      The administrators of the FSFE project will then get a mail with your
      request and the comment you gave and can approve your membership in the
      project. After that you should see "FSF Europe" in the "Groups I'm
      Contributor of" after you login at savannah.
    </p>

    <h3>Checking out the repository</h3>

    <p>
      First you should make sure that your ~/.bashrc file contains a line
      saying<br />
      <code>export CVS_RSH=ssh</code><br />
      then create a directory for the repository and execute<br />
      <code>$ cvs -z3 -d <i>username</i>@savannah.gnu.org:/webcvs/fsfe co
        .</code><br />
      in that direcotry. Now you are asked for your SSH passphrase. Enter it
      and confirm. If everything is alright, now the website should be checked
      out.
    </p>

    <h3>Working with the repository</h3>

    <p>
      After you checked out the repository the first time, you should
      execute<br />
      <code>$ cvs update -d</code><br />
      in the fsfe directory every time before you work on a specific file.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      If you want to add new files to the repository you have to execute<br />
      <code>$ cvs add <i>filename</i></code><br />
    </p>

    <p>
      To post your changes to the server, no matter be it a new file or a
      modification in an existing file, execute<br />
      <code>$ cvs commit <i>filename</i></code><br />
      and an editor will open to allow for some description of your changes.
    </p>

    <p>
      You can download a detailed manual for CVS at the
      <a href="http://www.nongnu.org/cvs/">CVS home page</a>.
    </p>

    <h3>Responsible handling of write access</h3>

    <p>
      If you have write access to the web pages, please subscribe to the
      <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web">Webmasters
        mailing list</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      Please bear in mind that all your changes will become effective and
      visible automatically, without any further action of anybody.
      Consequently, there are a few things we would request you to do whenever
      you commit changes or new files:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        Make sure that all files are proper XML. There is a script named
        <code>tools/validate.pl</code> that helps finding errors in the markup.
        Improper XML breaks the automatic build process of the web pages and
        blocks updates for the complete FSFE web site. If you suspect the build
        process to be broken, you can view the log of the last build run
        <a href="http://status.fsfeurope.org/web/">here</a>.
      </li>

      <li>
        If there is any chance that others can proofread your translation, use
        it. You can use the
        <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Translators
          mailing list</a> to ask for proofreading.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Please coordinate with other people from your language that also have CVS
      commit access to make sure that translations contributed by people
      without commit access are committed properly after they have been
      proofread. Of course, please check these files before you commit them
      like you check your own files.
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
