<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Information for Translators - Word List</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Word List for Translations</h1>

    <h2>Special Terms And Their Translations</h2>

    <p>
      We try to use fixed translations the following English terms to ensure a
      consistent language:
    </p>

    <p>
      (The column for the translated term is empty in this page for obvious
      reasons, please refer to a translation of this page to see the word lists
      for the respective language.)
    </p>

    <table class="wordlist">
      <tr>
        <th>English</th>
        <th>foreign language</th>
        <th>remark</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>associate organisation</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>See <a href="/associates/associates.html">the associates page</a> for details.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>chapter</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>(in the meaning of a legal entity of the FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>compulsory licensing</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>coordinator</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>(the coordinator of a project or a country team of the FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>copyright</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>deputy coordinator</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
				<td>(the second coordinator of a project or a country team of the
					FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Digital Restrictions Management (DRM)</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Directorate-General (DG)</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>(the <a
          href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directorate-General">governmental
          department</a> in the European Union)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Executive Director</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>See the <a href="/about/legal/constitution.html">constitution</a> for details.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Commission</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      <td>&#160;</td>
			</tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Council</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Court</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>European Patent Office</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>executive committee</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>For details, see the <a href="/about/legal/template-constitution.html">template constitution for chapters</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>extended executive committee</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>For details, see the <a href="/about/legal/template-constitution.html">template constitution for chapters</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
	<td>fee</td>
	<td>&#160;</td>
	<td>Often used in connection with standards or patents. The word translates differently depending on the context in some languages (e.g. <a href="wordlist.fr.html">French</a>).</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Fellow</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Fellowship</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Free Software</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Free Software community</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Freedom Party</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>A party (a gathering) for Free Software enthusiasts.</td>
      </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>FSFE / FSF Europe / Free Software Foundation Europe</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>"FSF Europe" is no longer used. Depending on the context we use
        "FSFE" or "Free Software Foundation Europe"</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>General Assembly (GA)</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>The highest organ in the FSFE.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>GNU Project</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>hub</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>(in the meaning of the central legal entity of the FSFE, as opposed
          to the chapters)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>"intellectual property"</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>always put in quotes!</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>mailing list</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>non-profit</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>President of the FSFE</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>sister organisation</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>smart card</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>(the Fellowship card) Please avoid the term "crypto card" because
        of trademark issues!</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>software patent</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>supporter</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>people who sign up to show their support for FSFE's activities 
        (no money are involved)</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>trademark</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>UN World Summit on Information Society</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>volunteer</td>
        <td>&#160;</td>
        <td>(people who work in their spare time for FSFE)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>


    <h2>Boilerplate Texts</h2>


		<h3>For the Free Software Foundation Europe</h3>


		<h4>Press Release Footer</h4>

    <pre>
      About the Free Software Foundation Europe

      The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
      non-governmental organisation active in many European countries and
      involved in many global activities. Access to software determines
      participation in a digital society. To secure equal participation
      in the information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free
      Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the
      furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study,
      modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these
      issues, securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving
      people Freedom by supporting development of Free Software are
      central issues of the FSFE.

      http://fsfe.org/
    </pre>


		<h4>Newsletter Footer</h4>

    <pre>
      You can find a list of all FSFE newsletters on
      http://fsfe.org/news/newsletter.en.html
    </pre>


    <h4>E-Mail Signature Line of Many Fellows</h4>

    <pre>
      Join the Fellowship and protect your Freedom!     (http://fellowship.fsfe.org/)
    </pre>


		<h3>For the Freedom Task Force</h3>


		<h4>Press Release Footer</h4>

    <pre>
      About the Freedom Task Force

      The Freedom Task Force is an activity run by Free Software Foundation 
      Europe to help people understand Free Software licensing and the 
      opportunities it presents. We offer educational services, facilitate 
      larger infrastructure activities and manage FSFE's legal affairs. 
      Our goals are to share knowledge about Free Software law, to 
      safeguard the interests of Free Software projects, to connect 
      experts in this field and to help other groups achieve similar goals.
      We believe in positive, constructive dialogue and seek at all times 
      to support the long-term sustainability of Free Software.
    </pre>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
