<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Preamble</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div align="center">
    <h2>Preamble of the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>
     Georg C. F. Greve &lt;<a href="mailto:greve@fsfeurope.org">
      greve@fsfeurope.org</a>&gt;
     <br/>
    </div>
<p>
Upon entering the digital age, in which real and virtual space will
equally determine the social, cultural and scientific development of
mankind, the Free Software Foundation Europe has the long-term goal to
raise and work on the questions this will necessarily raise.
</p>
<p>
In this regard the direct function is the unselfish promotion of
Free Software as well as creating and propagating the awareness of the
related philosophical and social questions.
</p>
<p>
As its acknowledged sister organisation, the FSFE will join
forces with the Free Software Foundation founded by Richard
M. Stallman in the United States of America. The latter, recognised
tax-exempt charitable organisation in the USA, has been dedicating
itself since 1984 to the promotion and distribution of Free software
and in particular the GNU-System, a Unix-like operating system. This
system is mostly known by one of its variants, GNU/Linux, which since
1993 has been used successfully on many computers.
</p>
<p>
The term Free Software in the sense of the FSFE does not refer
to the price, but rather to the following four freedoms:
</p>
<ul>
<li> 1. freedom: the freedom to use a program for any purpose</li>
<li> 2. freedom: the freedom to study the program and adapt it to your
own needs. </li>
<li> 3. freedom: the freedom to make copies for others.</li>
<li> 4. freedom: the freedom to improve a program and make these
improvements available to others, so that the whole community
benefits. </li>
</ul>
<p>
This definition of Free Software goes back to the idea of freely
exchanging knowledge and ideas that can traditionally be found in
scientific fields. Like thoughts, software is non-tangible and
duplicable without loss. Passing feeds an evolutionary process,
advancing thoughts and software.
</p>
<p>
Only Free Software preserves the possibility to comprehend and build
upon scientific results. For scientists, it is the only kind of
software which corresponds to the ideals of a free
science. Accordingly, the promotion of free software is also a
promotion of science.
</p>
<p>
The distribution of information and the forming of an opinion are done
increasingly by digital media, and the trend is to foster the use of
those means for a direct citizen participation to
democracy. Therefore, a central task of the FSFE is to train
proficient citizens in these media, thereby promoting democracy.
</p>
<p>
Digital space ("Cyberspace"), with software as its medium and its
language has an enormous potential for the promotion of all mental and
cultural aspects of mankind. By making it commonly available and
opening up the medium, Free Software grants equal chances and
protection of privacy.
</p>
<p>
Coining the awareness for the problems related to the digital age in
all parts of society is long-term goal and a core aspect of the work
of the FSFE.
</p>
<p>
Therefore the FSFE will seek to increase the use of Free
Software in schools and universities in order to parallelise the
education in real space matters with the creation of understanding and
awareness of problems in virtual space.
</p>
<p>
Free Software guarantees traceable results and decision-making
processes in science and public life as well as the individual rights
to free development of personality and liberty of opinion. It is the
job of the Free Software Foundation Europe to carry Free Software into 
all areas that touch public life or "informational human rights" of citizens.
</p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2009-07-09 12:31:11 +0200 (Do, 09. Jul 2009) $ $Author: gollo $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
