<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Free software as a World Cultural Heritage: action at LSM 2002</title>
  </head>

  <body>

      <blockquote>

	<p>

	Original press release from LSM organisation at
	<a href="http://lsm.abul.org/press/CPunesco.php3?langnew=en">
	http://lsm.abul.org/press/CPunesco.php3</a>.

  </p>

<div align="center">
<h1>UNESCO responds to the request from the Free Software
community to inscribe Free Software to the World Heritage List.</h1>
</div>
<p align="justify">
<em>Bordeaux, Friday the 12th, 2002</em> - Five hundred Free Software users and
specialists gathered at the ENSEIRB on the campus of the University of
Bordeaux&#160;I (France) for a full week of promotion and sharing around
Free Software during the Libre Software Meeting from the 9th to the 13th of July.
M. Abdoulaye Diakité attended the last plenary session as the
representant of UNESCO. M. Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software
Foundation, and a group of Free Software developers gave officially to M.
Diakité copies of GNU and Abuledu software and Debian system, of all which is
Free Software.
</p>
<p align="justify">
Free Software is software which guarantees four fundamental freedoms: 
the freedom to use software, to redistribute it, and to modify and publish 
modified versions. Thanks to these freedoms, users from the whole world 
are able to translate, improve and adapt their software for their own 
needs. Thus, Free Software contributes to ensure the protection of local 
cultures, multinlingualism, development and conservation of information.
</p>
<p align="justify">
This is the reason why UNESCO, an organisation who defends the same
values, was eager to respond to the invitation of the Free Software
community and to take part in the LSM. &quot;UNESCO has always encouraged 
the extension and the diffusion of knowledge and recognises that in
the field of software, Free Software spreads this knowledge in the way 
that proprietary software does not allow. UNESCO also recognises that 
the development of Free Software encourages solidarity, cooperation 
and community teamwork between developers and users of new technologies&quot;. 
Declared M. Adbul Waheed Khan, from the UNESCO Communication and Information
Department, in his letter to the organisers of the event.
</p>
<p align="justify">
So, by symbolically receiving the work of many thousands of developers, 
UNESCO receives at the same time the request to register Free Software 
to the Immaterial World Heritage List. During the conference, participants 
agreed that this classification would give support to the Free Software 
community in its opposition to software patentability which would hinder 
its development. This would also contribute to give a higher profile 
to Free Software in order to fight against the digital divide and to 
foster the independence of users of new technologies around the globe.
</p>
<p align="left">
<em>Press contact:</em>
<br />Alix GUILLARD
<br />email: <a href="mailto:presse@lsm.abul.org">presse@lsm.abul.org</a>
<br />tel: +33 06 30 35 10 55</p>

      </blockquote>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
