<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE brings Free Software to the public sector</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/procurement/procurement.en.html">Public procurement</a>

    <h1>Strategic freedom: Free Software in the public sector</h1>

    <p class="background">
Free Software is a perfect fit for the public sector. It is a public
resource that government organisations can use, study, improve, and
share with each other. For citizens, this means transparency, cost
efficiency, and the freedom to interact with their government in the
way that suits them best.
    </p>

    <p>
Yet when public bodies buy computer programs and services, they often
put Free Software at a disadvantage. This means that they are spending
taxpayers' money in ways that are often wasteful, and frequently
illegal. This is highly problematic, because public bodies' procurement
choices exercise significant influence on the development of Europe's
high-tech economy. 
    </p>

    <p>
FSFE works with public sector organisations at all levels - from the
European Commission to local administrations - to systematically
improve procurement practices across the continent.
    </p>
   



    <h2>FSFE explains the problem</h2>

    <p>
Procurement is a field for specialists. Many procurement officials are
still not fully aware of Free Software. Combined with intertia in
public sector IT departments, this means that too many public bodies
never look beyond their long-standing relations with suppliers of
non-free software.
    </p>

    <p>
At FSFE, we work with journalists and researchers to highlight the
work of public sector organisations that are doing it right. When a
public body makes mistakes, we help them to correct them. And when
necessary, we put pressure on organisations that insist on harmful
ways of buying software.
    </p>

    <h2>Why procurement matters </h2>


    <p>
Public procurement spending equals nearly 20% of the EU's GDP. The
public sector's procurement choices have very real effects on the
economy, and play a significant role in determining the sort of firms
that thrive in the market.

Even with current procurement practices, Free Software already
delivers very significant benefits for the European economy.  Daffara
(2012)estimates that Europeans enjoy 114 billion EUR per year in
direct cost savings thanks to Free Software. [FIXME: footnote: Carlo
Dafarra (2012): Estimating the Economic Contribution of Open Source
Software to the European Economy. In: Shane Coughlan (ed.)(2012): The
First OpenForum Academy Conference Proceedings, pp. 11-14] Anecdotal
evidence points in the same direction. Many public adminstrations that
begin using Free Software see their IT costs drop by 50-90%.
    </p>

    <p>
The public sector's buying decisions also has a significant influence
on the development of a healthy supplier ecosystem for Free Software
products and services. With more government institutions as their
customers, many such companies could thrive more quickly, and there
would be more and better Free Software programs available to the
public.
    </p>

   <h2>FSFE speaks up when things go wrong...</h2>

<p>
In 2010, the European Commission made a glaring mistake. The
Commission had issued numerous policy statements in favour of Free
Software and Open Standards. But when it came to buying software and
services for itself, it went straight to Microsoft and its
resellers. Companies offering Free Software never had a chance, even
though their products offered the same functionality.
</p>
<p>
We saw that the Commission had certainly breached the spirit, if not
the letter, of the law. So we took them to task, generating lots of
press coverage - right up to the New York Times.
</p>
<p>
We want the European Commission to procure
the software products it needs in an open, competitive fashion,
giving Free Software suppliers the same opportunities as it gives
to proprietary vendors and their resellers.
</p>
<p>
We want the EC to take a long-term view of its IT strategy,
realise the dangers of lock-in, and figure future exit costs into
the price of any solution it acquires.
</p>
<p>
This is what the Commission owes to Europe's citizens. Sticking to
the letter and spirit of European procurement law would be an
excellent start.
</p>


    <h2>...and offers independent solutions</h2>


    <p>
Fortunately, most people are more open to progress than that. 
      We help procurement officials understand the full impact of
      their actions, and we help them to do better - not only for
      their organisations, but also for the citizens whom they serve.
    </p>
    <p>
      At FSFE, we are in constant dialogues with procurement
      specialists across Europe. We observe new approaches, identify
      what works, and provide analysis to decision makers. We help
      specialists in different countries learn from each other. 
    </p>
    <p>
      To speed up change at the ground level, we also work with
      national governments to help them draft policies that promote
      Free Software adoption. In January 2014, Italy introduced a rule
      requiring public bodies to first evaluate Free Software before
      buying non-free solutions. FSFE's General Counsel Carlo Piana
      was part of the expert committee installed by the government to
      design this rule, alongside participants from all sectors of the
      software market. 
    </p>
    <p>
      This is the sort of change that FSFE helps to create. Please
      support us in this effort.
    </p>
 
    <h2>Find out more</h2>

    <p>
A detailed discussion of procurement practices and policies can be
found in the article "Public Procurement: Free Software's wild
frontier", by Karsten Gerloff (2013). [FIXME: http://www.openforumacademy.org/research/library/ofa-research/Thoughts_on_Open_Innovation%20-%20Chapter%207.pdf]
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
	    http://fsfe.org/activities/ms-vs-eu<br/>
    </address>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
