<html>
<body>
<h1>mEUcrosoft contracts</h1>
  <p>
  The FSFE has <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2014/news-20140708-01.en.html">recently expressed its concern</a>
  for the lock-in into Microsoft software and licenses that the EU
  experiences since a number of years. To understand the issue, it
  is helpful to develop a baisc understanding of how the EU awards
  its IT contracts.</p>
  
  <p>As the EU is a public institution financed by the people, it is
  required to allocate its resources in a fair and transparent way.
  In terms of IT contracts, this means that the EU is supposed to
  consider alternating solutions in a fair and competitive way in
  order to arrive at the best solution possible.</p>
  
  <p>The process described above carries the name "Open Call for Tender".
  It essentially means that the EU announces its requirements for a
  specific IT solutions, and providers of said solutions apply and
  compete in order to be chosen. This, of course, includes providers
  of <a href="/freesoftware/basics/4freedoms.en.html">Free Software</a>.</p>
  
  <p>Despite the abovementioned procedure, the EU has repeatedly entered
  contractual agreements with Microsoft through a process called
  'negotiated procedure'. What this means is that a deal is made
  without the required level of competitiveness, with questionable
  arguments.</p>
  
  <p>The overview provided below is a list of all the contractual
  obligations with Microsoft the EU has entered in recent years.
  It is meant to show the extent of the issue in financial terms
  and the questionable argumentation given by the EU.</p>
  
<h2>Contract:</h2>
<h3>Purpose:</h3>
<h3>Justification:</h3>
<h3>Value:</h3>


</body></html>