<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
<head>
  <title>Public Procurement - Overview - FSFE</title>
</head>

<body>

 <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Work</a></p>

 <h1>Public procurement</h1>

 <div id="introduction">

  <p class="background">
  <a href="/freesoftware/basics/4freedoms.en.html">Free Software</a>
  is a perfect fit for the public sector. It is a public resource that
  government organisations can use, study, improve, and share with
  each other. For citizens, this means transparency, cost efficiency,
  and the freedom to interact with their government in the way that
  suits them best. 
  </p>
  <p class="background">
  But not all government institutions are taking advantage of Free
  Software. In consequence, public funds are being wasted, and
  that programs that should be free are being locked away. This
  also makes life hard for the Free Software-based companies who
  employ people in Europe, and pay their taxes here.
  </p>
 </div>

    <h2>FSFE explains the problem</h2>

    <p>
Procurement is a field for specialists. Many procurement officials are
still not fully aware of Free Software. Combined with intertia in
public sector IT departments, this means that too many public bodies
never look beyond their long-standing relations with suppliers of
non-free software.
    </p>

    <p>
At FSFE, we work with journalists and researchers to highlight the
work of public sector organisations that are doing it right. When a
public body makes mistakes, we help them to correct them. And when
necessary, we put pressure on organisations that insist on harmful
ways of buying software.
    </p>

    <h2>Why procurement matters </h2>


    <p>
Public procurement spending equals nearly 20% of the EU's GDP <a href="#not1" id="anc1">[1]</a>. The
public sector's procurement choices have very real effects on the
economy, and play a significant role in determining the sort of firms
that thrive in the market.

Even with current procurement practices, Free Software already
delivers very significant benefits for the European economy. Daffara
(2012) estimates that Europeans enjoy 114 billion EUR per year in
direct cost savings thanks to Free Software. <a href="#not2" id="anc2">[2]</a>.Anecdotal evidence points in the same direction. Many public adminstrations that begin using Free Software see their IT costs drop by 50-90%.
    </p>

    <p>
The public sector's buying decisions also has a significant influence
on the development of a healthy supplier ecosystem for Free Software
products and services. With more government institutions as their
customers, many such companies could thrive more quickly, and there
would be more and better Free Software programs available to the
public.
    </p>

   <h2>FSFE speaks up when things go wrong...</h2>

<p>
In 2010, the European Commission made <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20101207-01.en.html">a glaring mistake</a>. The
Commission had issued numerous policy statements in favour of Free
Software and Open Standards. But when it came to buying software and
services for itself, it went straight to Microsoft and its
resellers. Companies offering Free Software never had a chance, even
though their products offered the same functionality.
</p>
<p>
We saw that the Commission had certainly breached the spirit, if not
the letter, of the law. So we took them to task, generating lots of
press coverage - right up to the New York Times.
</p>
<p>
We want the European Commission to procure
the software products it needs in an open, competitive fashion,
giving Free Software suppliers the same opportunities as it gives
to proprietary vendors and their resellers.
</p>
<p>
We want the EC to take a long-term view of its IT strategy,
realise the dangers of lock-in, and figure future exit costs into
the price of any solution it acquires.
</p>
<p>
This is what the Commission owes to Europe's citizens. Sticking to
the letter and spirit of European procurement law would be an
excellent start.
</p>


    <h2>...and offers independent solutions</h2>


    <p>
	Fortunately, most people are more open to progress than that. 
      We help procurement officials understand the full impact of
      their actions, and we help them to do better -- not only for
      their organisations, but also for the citizens whom they serve.
    </p>
    <p>
      At FSFE, we are in constant dialogues with procurement
      specialists across Europe. We observe new approaches, identify
      what works, and <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2011/news-20110418-01.en.html">provide analysis</a> to decision makers. We help
      specialists in different countries learn from each other. 
    </p>
    <p>
      To speed up change at the ground level, we also work with
      national governments to help them draft policies that promote
      Free Software adoption. In January 2014, Italy introduced <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2014/news-20140116-01.en.html">a rule
      requiring public bodies to first evaluate Free Software before
      buying non-free solutions</a>. FSFE's General Counsel Carlo Piana
      was part of the expert committee installed by the government to
      design this rule, alongside participants from all sectors of the
      software market. 
    </p>
    <p>
      This is the sort of change that FSFE helps to create. Please
      <a href="https://fsfe.org/support/index.en.html">support us</a> in this effort.
    </p>
    
    <hr />
    
     <p><a id="not1" href="#anc1">[1]</a> Open Forum Europe (2013): <a href="http://openforumeurope.org/openprocurement/open-procurement-library/Report_2012_2ndSnapshot%20final.pdf/at_download/file">OFE Procurement Monitoring Report 2012 </a>, 2nd Snapshot, p. 2</p>
    
    <p><a id="not2" href="#anc2">[2]</a> Carlo Dafarra (2012): Estimating the Economic Contribution of Open Source Software to the European Economy. In: Shane Coughlan (ed.)(2012): <em>The First OpenForum Academy Conference Proceedings</em>, pp. 11-14</p>
    
    
      <hr />
 

<h2>Publications</h2>

 <dynamic-content />     

 <ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.openforumacademy.org/research/library/ofa-research/Thoughts_on_Open_Innovation%20-%20Chapter%207.pdf">Public Procurement: Free Software's wild
frontier</a> [pdf] (Karsten Gerloff, 2013) is a detailed discussion of procurement practices and policies. </li>

<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/activities/os/2012-06-uk-consultation-os.en.html">Submission to UK Open Standards Consultation 2012</a></li>

<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2012/news-20120412-02.en.html">Executive summary and analysis of the Helsinki City and OpenOffice case in 2010-2011</a></li>

<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20110418.ProcurementConsultation.FSFEresponse.en.html">Contribution to the EC public consultation on the modernisation of EU public procurement policy</a></li>

<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/uk/mapping-uk.en.html">Mapping the changing landscape of Free Software in the British Public Sector</a></li>

<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/nledu/nledu.en.html">Campaign, Unlocking the Dutch educational system </a></li>


 <!-- FIXME: add more links to FSFE work & publications here -->
 

 </ul>
   

<!-- FIXME: add related links to FSFE work & publications here -->
     


<h2>Related News</h2>


 <fetch-news />

 <li>[Blog]:<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2013/04/17/european-parliament-to-report-on-own-use-of-free-software/">European Parliament to report on own use of Free Software</a></li>

<li>[Blog:]<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/07/18/helping-the-european-parliament-to-release-its-own-free-software/">Helping the European Parliament to release its own Free Software</a></li>

<li>[Blog]:<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/06/06/the-european-commissions-locked-in-syndrome/">
The European Commission’s locked-in syndrome</a></li>

<li>[Blog]:<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2014/01/15/european-commission-still-in-denial-on-vendor-lock-in/"> European Commission still in denial on vendor lock-in</a></li>

 <h2>External links of interest</h2>
 
 <ul>
  <li><a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.odfalliance.org">ODF Alliance</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders.org</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.fsf.org/resources/formats/playogg">Play Ogg!</a></li>
  <li><a
   href="http://isp.law.yale.edu/static/papers/Open_Documents_and_Democracy.pdf">"Open
   Documents and Democracy"</a> by Laura de Nardis and Eric Tam, Yale Information Society Project</li>
  <li><a href="http://www.intgovforum.org/Substantive_1st_IGF/openstandards-IGF.pdf">"An Economic Basis for Open Standards"</a> by Rishab A. Ghosh</li>
  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=160">"An emerging understanding of Open Standards"</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a></li>
   <li><a href="http://www.openforumeurope.org/openprocurement">Open Forum Europe, procurement work</a></li>
 </ul>


</body>

<timestamp>$Date: 2013-11-26 14:38:52 +0100 (Tue, 26 Nov 2013) $ $Author: max.mehl $</timestamp>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
