<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe at the Free and Open Source Software Developers
    Meeting in Brussels</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<h1>The Free Software Foundation Europe gathers members and volunteers at
       the Free and Open Source Software Developers Meeting in Brussels</h1>
</center>

    <p>
    Between the 16th and 17th of February, 2002, the Free and Open Source
    Software Developers Meeting will take place in Brussels, Belgium. Among
    the visitors will be Richard M. Stallman, president of the Free Software
    Foundation and Georg C. F. Greve, president of the Free Software Foundation
    Europe.
    </p>

    <p>
FOSDEM will also host the Free Software Foundation
Award Ceremony. The FSF Award For the Advancement of Free Software
is handed out annually to honor someone who has contributed significantly
to further the Free Software Movement. Earlier award winners include
Larry Wall, Miguel de Icaza and Brian Paul.
    </p>

    <p>
The FSF Europe will also meet internally during the FOSDEM event to discuss
the future of Free Software in Europe and elsewhere. An open round table
discussion on the topic will take place if there is sufficient interest.
    </p>

    <p>
Additionally, the FSF Europe would like to welcome all members of the press to
FOSDEM where they will have the opportunity to meet many of the foundation
members and volunteers who would be happy to talk about the issues of Free
Software.
    </p>

    <h3>About the Free and Open Source Developers Meeting:</h3>

    <p>
FOSDEM (renamed from The Open Source and Free Software Developers Meeting
to underline the importance of Free Software) was first held in 2001 and
was attended by more than 1200 visitors during its two day conference,
making it one of the larger Free Software events in Europe. 
    </p>

    <p>
      More information: <code><a href="http://www.fosdem.org/">http://www.fosdem.org/</a></code>
    </p>

    <h3>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</h3>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF Europe) is a charitable
      non-governmental organization dedicated to all aspects of Free Software
      in Europe. Access to software determines who may participate in a
      digital society. Therefore the freedoms to use, copy, modify and
      redistribute software - as described in the Free Software definition -
      allow equal participation in the information age. Creating awareness for
      these issues, securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving
      people freedom by supporting development of Free Software are central
      issues of the FSF Europe, which was founded in 2001 as the European
      sister organization of the Free Software Foundation in the United
      States.
    </p>
    <p>
      More information: <code><a href="http://fsfeurope.org/">http://fsfeurope.org/</a></code>
    </p>

    <h3>Contact:</h3>

<pre>
   Georg C. F. Greve &lt;greve@gnu.org&gt;
   Tel: +49-40-23809080
   Fax: +49-40-23809081
</pre>

<p>Further press contact information is available at<br />
<code><a href="http://fsfeurope.org/press/">http://fsfeurope.org/press/</a></code></p>

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
