<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Free Software Experts</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
        <a href="article2001-08-23-01.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
        English |
        <a href="article2001-08-23-01.fr.html">Français</a> |
        <a href="article2001-08-23-01.it.html">Italian</a> |
        <a href="article2001-08-23-01.pt.html">Português</a> |
        <a href="article2001-08-23-01.es.html">Español</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>Free Software Experts</h2></center>

	<p> Have you ever been depressed, possibly more than once, to
	    discover that a so called <a
	    href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.fr.html">Free
	    Software</a> project was financed despite the fact that
	    it had nothing to do with Free Software? Europe will soon
	    be financing new projects and you could help prevent
	    similar travesties by becoming <a
	    href="http://candidature.cordis.lu/expert-evaluators/">External
	    Experts</a>. It will then be more difficult to claim that
	    nothing could be done: your skills are required to
	    validate the candidate projects.
	</p>

	<p> The <a href="http://www.cordis.lu/fp5/src/over.htm">Fifth
	    Framework Programme</a> (FP5) of the European Commission
	    <a
	    href="http://www.cordis.lu/fp5-openings/home.html">needs
	    experts</a>.  Of the candidates who proposed themselves
	    thru the <a
	    href="http://candidature.cordis.lu/expert-evaluators/">online
	    application form</a>, only a few have any real
	    understanding of what Free Software is and how it
	    works. While all experts will be eligible, only a few will
	    be solicited for any particular evaluation. In each case
	    the experts will speak only for themselves, not for their
	    employer nor for organizations they belong to. Early in
	    October 2001 a number of projects will be sent for
	    evaluation in the <i><a
	    href="http://www.cordis.lu/fp5/src/t-2.htm">Creating a
	    user-friendly information society</a></i> framework.
	</p>

	<p> Who will then be able, technical concerns aside, to judge
	  that a so called <i>Free Software</i> project is not in fact
	  simply a marketing attempt, using the latest buzzword?  The
	  candidates for funding know that the European Commission <a
	  href="http://www.cordis.lu/ist/ka4/tesss/impl_free.htm#2001">wishes
	  to encourage Free Software projects</a> because of their
	  intrinsic qualities of freedom, independence and sharing.
	  The temptation will be great for them to say they have the
	  technical and human resources necessary to create and
	  maintain a Free Software project even if they don't have the
	  slightest idea of what it really means. If no expert has a
	  real knowledge of Free Software project development, how
	  will the European Commission be able to sort that out?
	</p>

	<p> An example demonstrates this situation. Let's pretend that
	  the <a href="http://www.gnupki.org/en/index.php">GnuPKI</a>
	  project and the <a
	  href="http://www.campware.org/">campware</a> project <a
	  href="http://www.cordis.lu/ist/ka4/tesss/prog.htm">submit
	  proposals</a> that are equally good technically speaking
	  (regardless of the fact that they deal with different
	  subjects).  Let's further pretend that the commission has to
	  choose between these two, without the benefit of advice from
	  any Free Software experts. They will probably favor
	  GnuPKI since they do a better job of marketing themselves.
	</p>

	<p> It turns out that people familiar with Free Software would
	  notice some anomalies about GnuPKI. First of all it is
	  not a package of the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU
	  project</a>, despite their name. 
	  Given that the GNU project provides core components to the most
	  widely used Free Software operating systems (Debian, RedHat, Mandrake etc.),
	  this mistake demonstrates a disturbing ignorance. Free Software is
	  a matter of communicating with heterogeneous development groups,
	  this is therefore a point that plays against GnuPKI. In addition,
	  the GnuPKI security expert, Mr
	  Eduard Tric, <a
	  href="http://www.google.com/search?q=%22eduard+tric%22">has never
	  participated in Free Software development</a> and no
	  package of the developed software is available as yet.
	  This shows a lack of understanding for the development model.
	  Taking these facts into account, we would now expect GnuPKI's
	  chances of being successful to be much lower than those of
	  campware.
	</p>

	<p>
	  One cannot expect all cases to be as clear cut as this
	  example. Evaluating a project, for the European Commission
	  or for your own company, often requires a more subtle study.
	  When dealing with Free Software it is essential to carefully
	  evaluate the legal status of a project with particular
	  regard to copyright, because various licenses
	  are used and many companies are involved. The ability of the
	  candidates to cooperate with development teams on the
	  network, their ability to establish a dialog and their
	  current involvement in the Free Software community is also
	  of great importance. These points are not technical, they
	  don't have an equivalent in non-free software projects and
	  can only be evaluated by people actively involved in Free
	  Software.
	</p>

	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a> <a href="http://www.gnu.org/people/">member of the GNU project</a></i>
	<p/>
	Thanks to Phil Hands, Bernhard Reiter, MJ Ray.
	<p/>
	Submitted to:
	<ul>
	  <li><a href="http://www.slashdot.org/">Slashdot</a> (rejected)</li>
	  <li><a href="http://www.linuxtoday.com/">LinuxToday</a> (no reply)</li>
	  <li><a href="http://www.newsforge.org/">NewsForge</a> (<a href="http://www.newsforge.com/article.pl?sid=01/08/27/1215241&mode=nocomment">published</a>)</li>
	</ul>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
