<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>ANSOL becomes associate organisation of the FSF Europe</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
    <h1>Portuguese National Association for Free Software becomes associate
      of the Free Software Foundation Europe</h1>
</center>

    <p>
      The FSF Europe gladly announces that the Portuguese "Associação
      Nacional para o Software Livre" (ANSOL) is now an associate
      organisation of the Free Software Foundation Europe.
    </p>

    <p>
      ANSOL has joined the FSF Europe to actively support its activities and
      work for free software in Europe and to facilitate cooperation with
      organisations in other Portuguese-speaking countries.
    </p>

    <p>
      The first important task ANSOL is currently working on is the study of
      the <a href="/projects/eucd/eucd-fs.en.html">implications for free software
      of the European Union Copyright Directive</a> and other European and
      national legislation.
    </p>

    <p>
      "This collaboration is a very important step for the Portuguese and
      European free software community. Problems faced by the free software
      community in Portugal are similar to those faced in other European
      countries; by joining forces with FSFE we can solve this problems more
      efficiently" said Jaime Villate, founding member of ANSOL.
    </p>

    <p>
      "Creating an associated organisation is usually the first important step
      to bring the FSF Europe to another country," says Georg Greve, President
      of Free Software Foundation Europe. "We are glad that people in Portugal
      wish to become part of our vision for a Europe united in Free Software."
    </p>

    <h3>About ANSOL:</h3>

    <p>
      ANSOL is a recently born non-profit association with the primary goal
      of promoting Free Software in Portugal.
    </p>

    <p>
      More information: <code><a href="http://www.ansol.org/ansol.en.html">http://www.ansol.org/ansol.en.html</a></code>
    </p>

    <h3>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</h3>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF Europe) is a charitable
      non-governmental organisation dedicated to all aspects of Free Software
      in Europe. Access to software determines who may participate in a
      digital society. Therefore the freedoms to use, copy, modify and
      redistribute software - as described in the Free Software definition -
      allow equal participation in the information age. Creating awareness for
      these issues, securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving
      people freedom by supporting development of Free Software are central
      issues of the FSF Europe, which was founded in 2001 as the European
      sister organisation of the Free Software Foundation in the United
      States.
    </p>
    <p>
      More information: <code><a href="http://fsfeurope.org/">http://fsfeurope.org/</a></code>
    </p>

    <h3>Contact:</h3>

<pre>
 Europe
   Georg C. F. Greve &lt;greve@gnu.org&gt;
   Tel: +49-40-23809080
   Fax: +49-40-23809081
 France   
   Frederic Couchet  &lt;fcouchet@april.org&gt;
   Tel: +33 6 60 68 89 31
 Germany
   Bernhard Reiter &lt;bernhard@intevation.de&gt;
   Tel: +49-541 - 335 08 - 33
 Italy
   Alessandro Rubini &lt;rubini@gnu.org&gt;
   Tel: +39-0382-529.554 (o .424)
   Fax: +39-0382-529.424 
 Sweden  
   Jonas Öberg &lt;jonas@gnu.org&gt;
   Tel: +46-31-546211
</pre>

<p>Further press contact information is available at<br />
<code><a href="http://fsfeurope.org/press/">http://fsfeurope.org/press/</a></code></p>

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
