<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>EUCD and the first LiLiT meeting</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <!-- Begin page content -->

      <center>
	<h1>EUCD and the first LiLiT meeting</h1>
      </center>

      <p>
	Friday 26 April, <a href="http://www.lilit.be/">LiLiT</a>,
	organized its first conference. Belgium is a small country
	with a remarkably high number of GNU/Linux user groups.
	Unlike many others LiLiT is not only focused on the technical
	side of GNU/Linux: philosophy and political activism is on
	their agenda. The conference reflected this orientation with a
	talk about legal activism and another on the philosophy of
	Free Software.
      </p>

      <p>
	Alexandre Dulaunoy, activist of the <a
	href="http://www.ael.be/">AEL</a> explained the evolution
	of the legal system and its impact on software freedom.
	The AEL is a democratic non-profit organization and
	Alexandre self-chosen activity is to understand copyright,
	software patents, OMPI. The most remarkable part of his
	speech was on EUCD.
      </p>

      <p>
	The <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/law/eucd/">EUCD</a> will
	become a law in each European country if noone acts against it
	before December 2002 (see <a
	href="http://europa.eu.int/smartapi/cgi/sga_doc?smartapi!celexapi!prod!CELEXnumdoc&amp;lg=en&amp;numdoc=32001L0029&amp;model=guichett">Directive
	2001/29/EC, article 13</a>). It will happen in Belgium (it's a
	law project for the moment) and it already happened in Italy.
	Why would you want to stop EUCD in your country ? Because it
	turns the act of writing, distributing and even discussing the
	most trivial software into a criminal offense. Do you have the
	freedom of writing from scratch a software that displays the
	content of a DVD ?  In France you can: everyone has the
	freedom to write any kind of software with her own hands. In
	Italy EUCD made this illegal.
      </p>

      <p>
	EUCD is a plague worse than software patents. It forbids
	anyone to write software that "may circumvent a protection
	mechanism". DVD are encrypted supposedly to protect from
	copies. EUCD therefore forbids you to write a software to read
	your DVD on your DVD reader. This reasoning can be extended ad
	nauseum: an online game server was recently sued because its
	communication protocol was compatible with the game server of
	the plaintive.  How is it related to protection mechanism ?
	The plaintive claims that the competitor does not implement
	the same proprietary license checks than his: any client can
	connect to the server (<a
	href="http://www.eff.org/IP/Emulation/Blizzard_v_bnetd/20020408_eff_bnetd_pr.html">more
	information</a>).
      </p>

      <p>
	If we don't spend some days of our time as soon as possible to
	fight EUCD, we are facing decades of horror. To my knowledge
	only a few people in Europe are actually doing something: <a
	href="mailto:adulau@conostix.com">Alexandre Dulaunoy</a> in
	Belgium/Luxemburg, <a href="mailto:joao@silvaneves.org">João
	Neves</a> in Portugal and <a
	href="http://uk.eurorights.org/">Campaign for Digital
	Rights</a>. João wrote a good analysis of EUCD, Alexandre
	published sample letters to send to political persons and
	Campaign for Digital Rights organizes mini conferences.  They
	are all talking to officials in their countries to explain
	them the dangers of EUCD.
      </p>

      <p>
	You can do something similar. It may very well be the case
	that you already did something. If so talk to Alexandre, João
	and Campaign for Digital Rights, make yourself know and use
	FSF Europe as a medium to create a force that will stop EUCD
	while it's possible. We have to unite at the European level.
      </p>

      <p>
	I kept this report short and focused on EUCD on purpose.
	Alexandre made me realize the urgency in this matter during
	the LiLiT conference. I was stuned and ashamed to have 
	overlooked this subject in the past months. Texts were too
	long to read, legal explanations were too hard to figure
	out. 
      </p>

      <p>
	I decided to rely on João, Alexandre and Campaign for Digital
	Rights and follow their lead. Are you joining us ?
      </p>
      
      <i><a href="mailto:loic@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
      <p></p>

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
