<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>FSF Europe - News</title>
	</head>
	<body>

	<div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
		<!-- Begin page content -->
		<div align="center">
			<h2>News Archive</h2>
		</div>

		<p>
			Here you can find news that do not appear any longer 
			on our <a href="../index.html">front page</a>.
		</p> 

		<h3>News</h3>

		<p>
			18 January 2002, <b>ANSOL becomes associated organization of the FSF Europe</b>
			"This collaboration is a very important step for the Portuguese and
			European free software community. Problems faced by the free software
			community in Portugal are similar to those faced in other European
			countries; by joining forces with FSFE we can solve this problems more
			efficiently" said Jaime Villate, founding member of ANSOL.
			[<a href="article2002-01-18-01.en.html">More...</a>]
		</p>

		<p>
			17 December 2001, <b>&quot;Freedom, Equality and Fraternity&quot;</b>
			OLinux interview with Georg C. F. Greve: &quot;[...] Keep on
			spreading the word. What we do today will influence the
			future of mankind for the next 200 years to come - we have
			to make sure that people understand the issues of Free
			Software and the importance of freedom.[...] Freedom counts! &quot;
			<a href="article2001-12-17-01.en.html">More...</a>]
		</p>

		<p>
			28 November 2001, Jonas Oberg was appointed new Vice President of the FSF
			Europe: "The future of Free Software depends a lot on
			what we do today. I plan to work to preserve the ability to
			use and develop Free Software in all of its forms, for
			example by helping to extend the efforts already underway
			against software patents and helping the media, government
			and companies understand the underlying issues of Free
			Software." 
			[<a href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/announce/2001-November/000030.html">More ...</a>]
		</p>

		<p>
			19 November 2001, Launch of the <b>&quot;We speak about Free 
			Software&quot;</b> campaign: There are compelling reasons to
			think and speak about Free Software and its philosophy. It
			is rather common knowledge this applies to society as a
			whole, but it has not yet been widely understood that it
			benefits companies, as well. Therefore the FSF Europe launches 
			this campaign on behalf and with support of several Free 
			Software companies. 
			[<a href="documents/whyfs.en.html">More ...</a>]
		</p>

		<p>
			11 November 2001, Over the past few months the 
			<a href="http://www.sourceforge.net/">SourceForge</a> development 
			facility, which hosts a large number of 
			<a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">Free 
			Software</a> projects, has changed its policies. Features
			for exporting a project from SourceForge have been removed. 
			The implementation used to be exclusively Free Software but 
			is now 
			<a href="http://www.google.com/search?q=cache:WxA5jbBHLMQ:sourceforge.net/docman/display_doc.php%3Fdocid%3D6267%26group_id%3D1+larry+augustin+site:sourceforge.net&amp;hl=en">based on non-free 
			software</a>. Finally, VA Linux has become rather underhand 
			in their attempts to grasp exclusive control of contributors' 
			work. SourceForge did a lot of good for the Free Software 
			community, but it's now time to break free. 
			[<a href="article2001-10-20-01.en.html">More ...</a>]
		</p>

		<p>
			7 November 2001, Press Release from EuroLinux: 
			<a href="http://petition.eurolinux.org/pr/pr14.html">Juridical Coup at
			the European Patent Office</a>. EuroLinux demands European
			governments to replace the current board of the European Patent
			Office and to strengthen democratic control.
		</p>

      <p>
	30 October 2001, The <a href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a> and the <a
	href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> participated in this
	year's <a href="http://www.cidadetecnologica.org">Porto, Technological
	City</a>, an event dedicated to Free Software in Portugal. This year's
	edition was held on October 12th, in a historic old market in the
	riverfront of the northern Portuguese city of Porto, an area which has
	been declared <em>world heritage</em> by Unesco.  [<a
	href="article2001-10-26-01.en.html">Read the report</a>]
      </p>

      <p>
	15 October 2001, the FSF Europe <a
	href="../events/Systems-2001/index.en.html">is present</a> at the <a
	href="http://www.systems.de">Systems</a> in Munich, Germany. Here are
	some other <a
	href="../events/Systems-2001/rupp/index.en.html">pictures</a> taken by
	Armin Rupp.
      </p>

      <p>
	9 October 2001, the <a
	href="http://www.softwarelibero.it">Associazione Software Libero</a>
	(AsSoLi) <a
	href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/discussion/2001-October/001865.html">becomes
	associate organization</a> of the FSF Europe.
      </p>

      <p>
	1 October 2001, on September 12th/13th Bernhard Reiter represented
	Free Software at an OECD Conference in Tokyo. [<a
	href="article2001-10-01-01.en.html">Read the report</a>]
      </p>

      <p>
	27 September 2001, <a
	href="http://wwww.pro-linux.de/">Pro-Linux.de</a> has made an
	interview in German with Georg Greve, you can find it <a
	href="http://www.pl-berichte.de/berichte/inter_greve.html">here</a>.
      </p> 

      <p>
	20 September 2001, FSF Europe e.V. (the central association) receives
	confirmation of its charitable status in Germany by the authorities.
      </p>

      <p>
	27 August 2001, <a href="article2001-08-23-01.en.html">Free Software
	  Experts</a>.
      </p>

      <p>
	26 August 2001, Georg Greve talks about "Copyright in the internet
	age" at the "<a href="http://www.ifa-berlin.de">Internationale
	Funkausstellung</a>" (IFA) in Berlin.  Slides (in German) available at
	<a
	href="http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/IFA-2001/">http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/IFA-2001/</a>.
      </p>

      <p>
	10 August 2001, added an <a href="../events/">events page</a>.
      </p>

      <p>20 July 2001, <a href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a> press release: <a
	href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2001q3/000017.html">Richard
	Stallman Inaugurates Free Software Foundation-India, First Affiliate
	in Asia of the Free Software Foundation</a>
      </p>

      <p>
	16 July 2001, the FSF Europe is mentioned in the German magazine <a
	href="http://www.focus.de">FOCUS</a> issue 29/2001, page 106 in a
	story about the GNU/<a href="http://linuxtag.org">LinuxTag</a>.
      </p>

      <p>
	29 June 2001, the FSF Europe will be present at the <a
	href="http://www.linuxtag.org/">LinuxTag</a> and <a
	href="http://lsm.abul.org">Libre Software Meeting</a> for the first
	time.  Interviews on the LinuxTag are possible, please read our <a
	href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2001q2/000013.html">press
	release</a>.
      </p>
      <p>For those absent:</p> 
      <ul> 
	<li>
	  <a
	  href="http://www.gnuhh.org/work/presentations/GNULinuxTag-2001/index.html">slides</a>
	  of Georg C. F. Greve speech (president of FSF Europe) at the
	  LinuxTag.
	</li>
	<li>
	  <a
	  href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/slides/index.html">slides</a>
	  of Frédéric Couchet speech (French chancellor of FSF Europe) at the
	  LSM.  </li>
      </ul>

      <p>
	7 May 2001, FSF Europe general assembly is over, read our press
	release: <a
	href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2001q2/000006.html">Free
	Software Foundation Europe aiming for more coordination between Free
	Software Developers</a>.  See also <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/photo/first-assembly/">photos by
	Olivier Berger</a> and <a
	href="http://adele.gerwinski.de/~peter/fsfe-20010506/">photos by Peter
	Gerwinski</a>.
      </p>
 
      <p>
	24 April 2001, two press releases: <a
	href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2001q2/000003.html">Free
	Software Foundation Europe finishes founding process</a> and <a
	href="http://mailman.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2001q2/000002.html">First
	general assembly of the Free Software Foundation Europe</a>.
      </p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
