<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Update Legal Network Membership Information</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/ln/ln.html">The Legal Network</a></p>

    <h1>Update Legal Network Membership Information</h1>

    <p>
      On this page, you can add or update information about yourself for the Legal Network. The information that you provide here will be included in a document that is available for all Legal Network members, to allow for an oversight of all members willing to share such information, find contact details, and learn
      about specialists in different professions and legislative systems. This
      information will be compiled by the Legal Network coordinators regularly.
    </p>

    <p>
      In order to update information about yourself, you can just
      write the new desired text for the affected fields. The other fields will
      not be touched. If you wish to completely remove yourself from the
      document, or wish to have certain fields cleared, please contact us
      directly.
    </p>

    <form class="form-horizontal" action="https://forms.fsfe.org/email" method="POST" >
      <input type="hidden" name="appid" value="ln-memberlist" />

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="name" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Your full name *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="name" name="name" required="required" />
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="confirm" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Your email address *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="email" class="form-control" id="confirm" name="confirm" required="required" />
        </div>
        <div class="col-sm-3 small">
          Please enter the email address you are subscribed with on the Legal
          Network mailing list. We can only successfully add/update your information if these match.
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="description" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Short self-description</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="description" name="description" maxlength="280" />
        </div>
        <div class="col-sm-3 small">
          Optional: shortly describe yourself. 280 characters maximum.
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="countries" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Countries you have legal expertise for</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="countries" name="countries" />
        </div>
        <div class="col-sm-3 small">
          Optional: in which countries are you professionally active, e.g.
          available to work in? Please use English names, and separate by comma.
          Example: Spain, USA, Japan, Great Britain
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="link" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Link to further information</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="link" name="link" />
        </div>
        <div class="col-sm-3 small">
          Optional: one link to further info about yourself, e.g. homepage or
          social media site.
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <div class="checkbox col-sm-offset-3 col-sm-5">
          <label>
            <input type="checkbox" name="obligatory" id="obligatory" value="yes" required="required" />
            I confirm that the information I've provided above is correct. I
            agree that this information is to be made available to all members of the
            Legal Network.
          </label>
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <div class="col-sm-offset-3 col-sm-5">
          <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Submit Entry</button>
        </div>
      </div>

    </form>

  </body>

</html>
