<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - GNUvox</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1 align="center">GNUvox</h1>

    <h2 align="center">The voices of FSFE and Free Software</h2>

    <h3>What is GNUvox?</h3>

	<p>GNUvox is a project promoted by FSFE to provide a clear voice that
	carries the message and meaning of Free Software outside the current
	boundaries of the Free Software community. It is a communication
	resource of the FSFE provided to the entire community, carried by a
	group of passionate people who wish to find new ways of explaning
	digital freedom to a wider public and younger generations.</p>

	<p>GNUvox addresses a wide and varied public since it wants to be a
	space that convinces more and more people that software is important
	for our society, as said in FSFE's slogan "Free Software, Free
	Society".  The challenge is to find a new language that effectively
	widens the Free Software community, without giving up the usual
	precision in the communication of the Free Software Foundations.</p>

	<p>The GNUvox project is currently composed of a blog, in Italian
	(<a href="http://gnuvox.info">http://gnuvox.info</a>).  The editorial 
	content, decided in total autonomy by FSFE, focuses on crucial sectors 
	that will be covered by the press team: from Free Software news to 
	press/web clips from other sources, to interviews and investigations, 
	from reviews to translations.  In the future, GNUvox will eventually 
	become a multimedia communication tool.</p>

	<h3>Why did we start GNUvox?</h3>

	<p>Free Software has been explained for 20 years in various ways,
	and different styles work on different groups. While being very
	effective in some part of the technical community, we need to reach
	beyond it.</p>

	<p>Therefore GNUvox has the following aims</p>:
	<ul>
	<li>widen the audience of information from the world of Free Software</li>
	<li>reach and educate to Free Software topics new readers</li>
	<li>establish a language that is simple and understandable understood,
	but legally and philosophically precise</li>
	<li>widen the network of FSFE, giving the community a platform to
	announce initiatives and news</li>
	<li>build a dialogue with national and international groups active
	promoting digital freedom, in general.</li>
	</ul>

	<h3>How does GNUvox seek to do this?</h3>

	<p>To reach these goals, FSFE's Italian Team has evaluated the
	opportunity to build and manage this project only 'in house' or to
	look for solid and motivated partner.  A partnership with
	Communicagroup has been chosen in Italy after a careful evaluation of
	mutual benefits.  Communicagroup has agreed to provide the
	infrastructure of the blog and to sustain the first months of
	editorial activity with a minimum refund of expenses for the writers.
	To finance the development of the project, both FSFE and
	Communicagroup look for advertisement and sponsors to cover the costs 
	of the project, but these will never influence the editorial content.</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
