<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
	<head>
		<title>Heiki "Repentinus" Ojasild - FSFE</title>
	</head>
	<body class="bio">
		<p id="category"><a href="/about/team.html">Team</a></p>
		<h1>Heiki "Repentinus" Ojasild</h1>

		<p>
			Repentinus became involved with FSFE in 2011 as a translator. His
			focus has shifted over time to website management, the Fellowship,
			and our campaigns.
		</p>

		<p>
			His  work on the various websites FSFE hosts has concentrated on
			translatability. He has been working on both making as much of the
			content on FSFE websites translatable as possible, and giving our
			translators the tools they need to get the job done, his latest and
			current priority.
		</p>

		<p>
			In <a href="/news/2013/news-20130319-01.html">March 2013</a>,
			Repentinus was elected the
			<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/">Fellowship</a> Representative
			for the following two years. As the Fellowship Representative,
			Repentinus has been working  to improve the infrastructure for the
			Fellows and encourage them to become more involved in our affairs.
		</p>

		<p>
			Furthermore, as part of his duties as the Fellowship Representative
			he has attended events organised by our local groups; due to the
			European geography, this has been thus far limited to local groups
			operating in the UK, where Repentinus is currently studying
			aeronautical engineering at the University of Glasgow.
		</p>

		<p>
			In regard to our campaigns, Repentinus has been responsible for
			contacting public institutions in his native Estonia as part of our
			<a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.en.html">Free Software PDF Readers campaign</a>.
			In addition, he has been responding to many of the enquiries we
			receive about the campaign.
		</p>

		<p>
			He has also engaged in various other activities he finds interesting
			or beneficial to our Fellows or users in general. Furthermore, he
			always welcomes an opportunity to hear from our Fellows, volunteers,
			or potential volunteers, so drop him a line!
		</p>

		<h2 id="Contact">Contact</h2>
		<address>
			Tartu, Estonia (Summer) <br />
			Glasgow, Scotland, UK (Rest of the Year) <br />
			E-mail: <a href="mailto:repentinus (at) fsfe (dot) org">repentinus (at) fsfe (dot) org</a><br />
			XMPP: repentinus (at) jabber (dot) fsfe (dot) org <br />
			GnuPG: <a href="ojasild.asc">0x91349DD8</a> <br />
			Weblog: <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus">Insights, Ramblings, Dreams, Action, Freedom, Liberty – Me</a> <br />
		</address>
	</body>
	<sidebar>
		<h3>Roles</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>Fellowship Representative (2013–2015)</li>
		</ul>
	</sidebar>
</html>
