<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!--
  This page describes FSFE’s brand and logo usage policy
-->

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE Brand and Logo Usage Policy</title>




  </head>

  <body class="article">
    <h1>FSFE Brand and Logo Usage Policy</h1>

    <!-- What -->
    <div id="introduction">
    <p>
FSFE Community Members, as well as FSFE Volunteer Groups, may use FSFE Marks, if they comply with this policy. This policy may refer to these people who may use FSFE Marks as “you”.
    </p>
    </div>

    <h2>Scope of Policy</h2>

    <p>
This policy shall apply to all trademarks of the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE).
    </p>

    <p>
<b>Trademarks</b> of the FSFE (“FSFE Marks") include both registered and unregistered trademarks, including logos, non-stylized wordmarks, and the trade dress of the FSFE website and promotional materials.
    </p>
    
    <p>
<b>Wordmarks</b> refer to text-only words (such as “Public Money? Public Code!” or “Youth Hacking 4 Freedom”) that are used in connection with the work or project that they represent, to identify the source. Wordmarks include all official translated and transliterated marks of their English original versions.
    </p>
    
    <p>
<b>Trade dress</b> refers to the design (“look and feel”) of a website, article, or other material (digital or physical) that identifies the source of the website or material. 
    </p>
      
    <p>
This policy shall apply whenever someone wishes to use an FSFE Mark, and explains how an FSFE Mark may be used.
    </p>

    <!-- Legitimate Users -->
    <h2>Who May Use FSFE Marks</h2>

    <p>
FSFE Community Members, as well as FSFE Volunteer Groups may use FSFE Marks, if they comply with this policy.
    </p>

    <p>
<b>FSFE Community Members</b> are individuals who contribute to FSFE projects in furtherance of the FSFE’s mission. Community Members must obtain FSFE approval or agreement before making use of an FSFE Mark.
    </p>
    
    <p>
<b>FSFE Volunteer Groups</b> are groups which are recognized by the FSFE that work to support or promote the FSFE’s goals and/or projects in furtherance of the FSFE’s mission. Volunteer Groups consist primarily of Community Members and may or may not be coordinated by the FSFE. Volunteer Groups must obtain FSFE approval or agreement before making use of an FSFE Mark. 
    </p>

    <h2>How To Use An FSFE Mark</h2>

    <p>
<b>Purposes of Using an FSFE Mark</b>
    </p>

    <p>
FSFE Marks may be used only for activities that promote our <a href="/about/mission.html">mission</a>, which is to:
    </p>
 <ul>
  <li>help individuals and organisations understand how Free Software contributes to freedom, transparency, and self-determination;</li>
  <li>enhance users' rights by abolishing barriers to Free Software adoption;</li>
  <li>encourage people to use and develop Free Software;</li>
  <li>provide resources to enable everyone to further promote Free Software in Europe.</li>
</ul> 

    <p>
FSFE logos may not be modified without explicit permission from the FSFE. Your use of an FSFE Mark may not suggest endorsement by or affiliation with the FSFE.
    </p>
    
    <p>
<b>Usage in Proper Form</b>
    </p>
    
    <p>
You may use FSFE wordmarks as proper names (for example, “FSFE did this”, or “Public Money? Public Code! Is a great campaign”), or as adjectives (for example, “the FSFE website is informative”). This includes any of the translations and transliterations of the FSFE Marks. 
    </p>

    <p>
<b>Usage at FSFE Community Focused Events</b>
    </p>

    <p>
You may use FSFE Marks for events that promote the FSFE’s mission. Such events include I Love Free Software Day events, volunteer group meetups, and hackathons. 
    </p>

    <p>
This provision does not allow you to use the FSFE Marks for fundraising.
    </p>

    <p>
<b>Usage for Outreach and Recruitment of New Contributors</b>
    </p>

    <p>
You may use the FSFE Marks consistent with our mission to educate people about Free Software and to recruit new contributors, so long as you make it clear that you do not work for the FSFE. You can create decorations such as banners or posters to decorate a public booth at events, or to publicize events. 
    </p>
    
    <p>
This provision does not allow you to use the FSFE Marks for fundraising.
    </p>
    
    <p>
<b>Usage To Refer To FSFE Websites</b>
    </p>

    <p>
You may use an FSFE Mark on your own website as a hyperlink to an official FSFE webpage. Logos used in hyperlinks may be resized, but they may not be modified in any other way.
    </p>
    
    <h2>Prohibited Uses of an FSFE Mark</h2>
    
    <p><b>
Mimicking Websites and Materials; Misleading
    </b></p>

    <p>
Do not create a website or materials that mimic the “look and feel” of official FSFE websites or materials. If you have a good reason to create a website or materials that mimic those produced by the FSFE, contact us directly first to obtain permission.
    </p>
    
    <p><b>
Misrepresentation
    </b></p>

    <p>
When you use an FSFE Mark under this policy, use it to represent only the project for which it stands. Do not create the impression that your use is in any way endorsed by, sponsored by, or part of the FSFE.
    </p>
    
    <p><b>
Revocation of Use
    </b></p>

    <p>
The FSFE may revoke the right for you to use any FSFE Marks under this policy at any time at our own discretion, including under circumstances where we determine that your use of an FSFE Mark is inconsistent with the FSFE’s mission or could harm community members, affiliated organizations, or the FSFE in general.
    </p>

  </body>
  <description>Information about the FSFE's brand and logo usage policy.</description>
  <followup>support</followup>
  <sidebar promo="our-work">
    <h3>FSFE Policies</h3>
    <ul>
        <li><a href="/about/usage-policy.html">Brand and Logo Usage Policy</a></li>
        <li><a href="/about/license-policy.html">Website Content Licensing Policy</a></li>
    </ul>
  </sidebar>
</html>
