<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Secure Free Software in Europe</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
	English
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
    <div align="center">
    <h2>General</h2>
    </div>

<p>
One important goal of FSF Europe is to secure free software in Europe.
</p>

<p>
The <a href="http://www.gnu.org/fsf/">FSF</a> and the <a
href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html">GNU General Public
License</a> are very much the backbone of Free Software. The GPL and
<a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html">LGPL</a> are the
predominant licenses used for Free Software; and not just inside the
GNU-Project.
</p>

<p>
A major reason for this is their carefully crafted balance between the
freedoms of the individual and the interests of the public. Not only
do they grant the four fundamental freedoms, they also protect them. 
</p>

<p>
Originating in the U.S., they have been written to do this job best
according to Berne convention and the U.S. law. As the legal systems
are in some significantly different in some countries, this left gaps
and insecurities that leave Free Software weaker than it could be.
</p>
<p>
Especially in countries with strong Free Software activities, the
(L)GPL should be made as secure as possible. Doing this in Europe is a
task the Free Software Foundation Europe will be dedicated to.  Since
most European signed the Berne convention we are in a favorable
situation. Securing the (L)GPL licenses is only a matter of using the
proper language and legal form, there is no need to revise or modify
the concepts and basis of the licenses.
</p>

<p> Only a good lawyer with a strong understanding of copyright law
can do this job. In addition it requires that he or she understands
and favor Free Software to keep the spirit of the license unchanged.
Working closely with Richard M. Stallman and Prof. <a
href="http://emoglen.law.columbia.edu/">Eben Moglen</a> will also be
necessary to ensure the original spirit of the GPL is kept.  </p>


    <div align="center">
    <h2>Vision</h2>
    </div>

<p>
All the legal tasks should be connected and coordinated on a European
level. At the same time the local laws in Europe are still pretty
different, so the actual work will have to be done on a local level.
</p>

<p> For this purpose, we have an <a
href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-law/">internal mailing
list</a> (fsfe-law@gnu.org, alias law@fsfeurope.org) that is for the
lawyers we work with troughout Europe.  This list should also act as a
primer for a European network of FSF-lawyers.  </p>

<p>
Lawyers and the legal system interact strongly with the political
system and through the Universities and publications in this sector,
it is possible to create a political climate favorable for Free
Software.
</p>

<p>
Also laws and decisions that are potentially harmful to Free Software
will be brought to the awareness of the FSF(E) earlier and can be
modified/countermanded more effectively.
</p>

<p>
This legal network will allow securing the future for Free Software
much more efficiently than we were able to do this in the past.
</p>

<p> The official translation is <a
href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/gpl/">already been worked on in
France</a>.</p>

    <div align="center">
    <h2>How to help/join us</h2>
    </div>

<p> If you are interested to help/join us, <a
href="mailto:law@fsfeurope.org">contact us</a> by email to
law@fsfeurope.org.</p>

</div><!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
