<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Microsoft against free competition</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>
      Software Patents Could Reduce The Microsoft Antitrust Suit To Absurdity
    </h1>

    <p>
      Microsoft CEO Steven Ballmer is a wise man. In March, he spoke to a
      business magazine about the Free Software movement and conceded, "I'm not
      saying it's not real competition. Maybe the world has exactly what it
      wants. It has us moving fast and hard, keeping our prices down." To
      paraphrase: Competition from Free Software such as GNU/Linux helps keep
      Microsoft innovative and prevents it from increasing prices arbitrarily.
    </p>

    <p>
      At the same time, Ballmer was honest enough to admit that he would
      litigate against Free Software if Microsoft weren't able to withstand the
      competition.  In the same interview he said: "There are experts who claim
      Linux violates our intellectual property. I'm not going to comment. But
      to the degree that that's the case, of course we owe it to our
      shareholders to have a strategy." Reading between the lines, his message
      seems to be that competition with Free Software has become inconvenient
      to Microsoft, and that the company aims to regain control by whatever
      means.
    </p>

    <p>
      Unfortunately, Ballmer is not as precise in his language as he could be.
      For one thing, "intellectual property" is not a legal term that exists,
      as such, anywhere in the world. Rather, lawyers work with legal
      structures such as copyrights, trademarks, and software patents. Given
      the circumstances, it's unlikely Ballmer is referring to copyrights and
      trademarks. So what he really means is software patents.
    </p>

    <p>
      And Microsoft knows the problems which might be caused by software
      patents very well. Here is a quote from Microsoft founder Bill Gates in
      1991: "If people had understood how patents would be granted when most of
      today's ideas were invented and had taken out patents, the industry would
      be at a complete standstill today." Most interesting is Mr. Gates
      conclusion: "The solution is patenting as much as we can. A future
      startup with no patents of its own will be forced to pay whatever price
      the giants choose to impose. That price might be high. Established
      companies have an interest in excluding future competitors."
    </p>

    <p>
      Following this strategy, Microsoft applied for and was granted thousands
      of patents throughout the world, including in Europe. But since Europe
      still lacks a legal basis for regional software patents, the software
      giant has lobbied intensively in favor of such laws in recent years. The
      attempts have failed so far, but in the meantime, Microsoft spreads FUD
      -- fear, uncertainty, and doubt -- over Free Software by openly
      speculating about possible "intellectual property" concerns. The aim is
      simple: To prevent customers from exercising freedom of choice in
      software.
    </p>

    <p>
      The European Commission will try to defend users' freedom by defending
      its 2004 antitrust decision against Microsoft before the Court of First
      Instance on April 24. But in the meantime, businesses small and large are
      choosing freedom by running a mixture of operating systems and
      application on their networks -- GNU/Linux, Unix, and Apple-based systems
      on one side, and Windows on the other. Communication works fine within
      these two worlds, but not between. There, cooperation falls down, not due
      to genuine technical constraints but simply because Microsoft has made it
      artificially difficult for Windows to interoperate with other operating
      systems.
    </p>

    <p>
      In this way, the monopolist remains in control of individual machines as
      well as the corporate network. In 2004, the European Commission ruled
      that Microsoft had harmed competition in Europe, and ordered the company
      to restore fair market conditions by publishing interoperability
      information for Windows. This software "grammar" is akin to the rules
      humans use to speak common languages. (The Free Software Foundation
      Europe has been admitted as a third party to the trial and has supported
      the European Commission since the lawsuit started in 2001.)
    </p>

    <p>
      Microsoft's resistance to complying with the Commission's demands make
      clear that the stakes in this battle are far greater than control of
      software markets such as network servers. Rather, the company's entire
      business model is at risk. Some 80% of Microsoft's revenues, and
      essentially all of its profits, derive from Windows and the Office suite
      of desktop applications. Can this possibly be because users are so happy
      with Microsoft software? Or are they "locked-in" to technology they
      acquired like crab lice in a careless moment?
    </p>

    <p>
      Microsoft is clearly scared by the possibility of customer defections,
      and so are shareholders. Every time the European Commission reasserts its
      intention to force open secret Windows protocols, Microsoft's stock dips.
      Overall, its shares have been flat since the EC's decision in 2004. But
      management and investors obviously are counting on continued software
      lock-in as the linchpin of Microsoft's future success.
    </p>

    <p>
      The problem is, with growing competition from Free Software and other
      alternatives, Windows and Office aren't likely to keep producing the
      enormous returns that Microsoft and its shareholders are used to. That's
      why the company is plunging into emerging opportunities such as security
      software, desktop search, RFID, and voice over IP (VoIP). But in typical
      fashion, the software giant aims to build those capabilities into Windows
      -- the very practice the European Commission faulted in its 2004
      decision. For now, Microsoft seems willing to risk fines from the
      Commission amounting to at least $2.4 million per day to hold onto its
      business model. After all, that's a pittance compared to what it makes
      every day in profits from its twin software monopolies.
    </p>

    <p>
      But here's the gotcha: Over the long term, Microsoft is counting on
      software patents in Europe for its escape hatch. Even if the company is
      forced to publish its secret software protocols or leave key features out
      of Windows, a European software patent law might eventually let it stamp
      out competition from Free Software. Though two previous attempts at
      enacting a European software patent were defeated, Charlie McCreevy,
      Europe's commissioner for Internal Markets and Services could well
      resurrect the project this year.
    </p>

    <p>
      That would be the ultimate irony. The same Commission that is pursuing
      Microsoft on the one hand for antitrust violations is, on the other hand,
      sanctioning new patent laws that could give Microsoft the power to crush
      competition forever. If such rules go into effect across Europe,
      entrepreneurs angling to compete against Microsoft could be blocked at
      every turn by software patents that prevent them from innovating. For the
      EC's pro-competition efforts are to have any teeth, Europe must resist
      allowing software patents that would render its antitrust capacity moot.
    </p>

    <p>
      Jonas Öberg<br />
      Vice President<br />
      FSFE,<br />
      Trollhättan, Sweden
    </p>

    <p>
      Carlo Piana<br />
      Lawyer<br />
      Studio Legale Tamos Piana &amp; Partners,<br />
      Milano, Italy
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
