<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">Microsoft against free competition</a>

    <h1>FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</h1>

    <p class="background">
      Europe's most important antitrust action in the software field
      was the European Commission's case against Microsoft. The
      Commission launched the case in 2004. FSFE participated as a
      "third party", providing expert input on Free Software,
      interoperability and competition. We worked closely with the
      Samba team, which develops a Free Software alternative to
      Microsoft's proprietary workgroup server.

      Our most important achievement was to make sure that Free
      Software developers could actually use the interoperability
      information, which Microsoft was forced to release, to build
      competing products.
    </p>

    <h2>Representation of developer's interest</h2>

    <p>
		FSFE played two key roles in this case. We represented the
		interests of Free Software developers.  In our official role as
		Intervener, we pushed the European Commission to reject any royalty
		requirements that would be incompatible with Free Software.  We also
		argued constantly for the publication of useful technical
		documentation and against lock-out of Free Software based on arbitrary
		manipulations of formats and standards.
    </p>

    <h2>Incorruptible</h2>

    <p>
		Second, FSFE was a public interest organisation which
		could not be bought
		off. The case began with many companies giving testimony of Microsoft's
		breaches of antitrust regulation, but one by one these companies made
		deals with Microsoft and withdrew from the case. FSFE and SIIA were the
		only two organisations that pursued this case from start to finish. We
		were later joined by ECIS, who did extraordinary
		work. Without this sustained support, the Commission
		would probably not pursued the case as decisively as it did.
    </p>

    <h2>Getting interoperability information</h2>

    <p>
		At the heart of this case was that the European Commission would require
		Microsoft to publish interoperability information.  Comparable to
		dictionaries and grammar books for human languages, this type of
		information is necessary for non-Microsoft software, such as Samba
		running on GNU/Linux, to communicate and function fully within existing
		client-server Microsoft networks.
    </p>
    <p>
		Previously, the Samba developers were forced to
		painstakingly gather this information by protocol
		analysis alone. <i>The interoperability information was not secret
		because it was valuable. It was valuable only because
		it was secret.</i>
    </p>

    <h2>Ruling confirmed at all levels</h2>

    <p>
		Supported by the persistent work by Carlo Piana,
		Andrew Tridgell, Jeremy Allison, Volker Lendecke,
		Georg Greve and other people acting on FSFE and
		Samba's behalf, the Commission's decision that
		Microsoft had breached competition rules was upheld at
		the highest level. In June 2012, the European Court of
		Justice confirmed the record EUR 860 million fine
		imposed on Microsoft by the Commission for the
		company's anticompetitive behaviour.
    </p>

    <h2>Interoperable applications now possible</h2>

    <p>
		Information has now been published and is being used by the developers
		of Samba and many other projects to improve network interoperability
		for Free Software applications.  This facilitates migration to Free
		Software.  The court rulings have also set important precedents
		regarding unacceptable business practices.
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
	    http://fsfe.org/activities/ms-vs-eu<br/>
    </address>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
