<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Contact - Community</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h1>Community</h1>

	<h2>Public Discussion</h2>

	<p>FSFE provides some infrastructure to foster public discussion on Free
	Software topics. Everybody is encouraged to freely state their opinions on
	these platforms. Please keep the <a
		href="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1855.txt">netiquette guidelines</a> in
	mind.  Opinions voiced in the public discussion are not official positions
	of FSFE.  For official statements see our <a
		href="/contact/press.html">press release lists</a> or contact us on <a
		href="/contact/contact.html">European</a> or <a
		href="/contact/local.html">local</a> level.</p>

	<h3>Language Specific</h3>
		<!-- alphabetical order -->
	<ul>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-ca">Discussion in Catalan</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-dk">Discussion in Danish</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-nl">Discussion in Dutch</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/discussion">Discussion in English</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-fi">Discussion in Finnish</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/Discutons">Discussion in French</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-de">Discussion in German</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-it">Discussion in Italian</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-pl">Discussion in Polish</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-ro">Discussion in Romanian</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-es">Discussion in Spanish</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-se">Discussion in Swedish</a></li>
	</ul>

	<h3>Region Specific</h3>
		<!-- alphabetical order -->
	<ul>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-bnl">Discussion in the Benelux countries</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-ie">Discussion in Ireland</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-nordic">Discussion in Nordic countries</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-ni">Discussion in Northern Ireland</a></li>
	</ul>
	
  <h3 id="irc">Internet Relay Chat</h3>
	
	<p>You can also join other Free Software supporters on IRC:</p>
	<ul>
	<li>Channel: <em>#fsfe</em></li>
	<li>Server: <em>irc.freenode.org</em></li>
	</ul>

        <h3>Microblogging</h3>

        <p>Many of us have started using the Free Software microblogging
        service Identi.ca to send status updates and interesting links.</p>

        <p>You can join us and other Free Software supporters by:</p>

        <ul>
          <li>Groups: We have created
          the <a href="http://identi.ca/group/fsfe">group "fsfe"</a>. If you
          want to send a notice to all people in this group, just put !fsfe
          somewhere in your message.</li>
          <li>Tags: We encourage you to use the #fellowship, #pdfreaders, #dfd,
          etc. tags in your messages when they are related to the named
          topic.</li>
          <li>FSFE user: If anything noteworthy should happen, we will inform
          you about it with our <a href="http://identi.ca/fsfe">user
          "fsfe"</a>.</li>
        </ul>

	<h2>Newsletter</h2>
	<ul>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/newsletter-en">The monthly newsletter of FSFE</a> (also available in <a href="/news/newsletter.html">other languages</a>)</li>
	<li>Other announcements lists directed to the press can be found on <a href="/contact/press.html">the press contact page</a>.</li>
	</ul>

	<h2>Contributor lists</h2>

	<p>Those are mailing lists for the coordination of our <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteer groups</a>.</p>

	<ul>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/designers">Designers team</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">Translators team</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web">Website coordination</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web-cvs-notify">The CVS notification list for the website</a></li>
	</ul>

	<h2>Fellowship lists</h2>

	<!-- Please adept the communicate.XX.html to your language code -->

	<p>Possiblities for the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellows</a> of
	FSFE to communicate are listed on <a
		href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/communicate.en.html">the Fellowship
		communicate page</a>.</p>



  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
