<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Contact Information</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
          <h2>Mailing Lists</h2>

          <p> If you are interested in general discussion about the
          FSFE or would like to participate, please join one of our
          <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo">mailing lists</a>.</p>

          <h2>Contact</h2>

          <p> In this section we will provide you with contact
          information for specific individuals or functions. It
          also informs you about the internal structure of the
          FSFE.</p>

          <dl>
	    <dt><b>Postal address</b></dt>
	    <dd>
	      <p>
	        Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
	        Villa Vogelsang<br/>
                Antonienallee 1<br/>
                45279 Essen<br/>
                Germany<br/>
                Phone: ++49  201  860 42 79<br/>
                Fax: ++49  201  860 42 81<br/>
	        European office e-mail: <a href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">office@fsfeurope.org</a>
 	      </p>
	    </dd>

            <dt><b>Generic email address</b></dt>

            <dd>
              <p> <a href="mailto:team@fsfeurope.org">
              team@fsfeurope.org</a> To contact everyone in the FSF
              Europe.</p>
            </dd>

            <dt><b>President and office</b></dt>

            <dd>
              <p> <a href="mailto:president@fsfeurope.org">
              president@fsfeurope.org</a> Address of the President
              of the FSF Europe. Currently
              held by <b><a href="/about/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a></b> and <b>Jonas Öberg</b>.</p>

              <p> <a href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">
              office@fsfeurope.org</a> For contacting the office of
              the FSF Europe. Current head of office is <b>Werner Koch</b>.</p>
            </dd>

            <dt><b>FSF Europe - Chapter France</b></dt>

            <dd>
              <p> <a href="mailto:chancellor@france.fsfeurope.org">
              chancellor@france.fsfeurope.org</a> Address of the
              Chancellor &amp; Vice-Chancellor of the French
              Chapter. Designated Chancellor is <b>Frederic
              Couchet</b>, Vice-Chancellor is <b>Raphael Rousseau</b>.</p>

              <p> <a href="mailto:france@fsfeurope.org">
              france@fsfeurope.org</a> To contact everyone involved
              in the public French activities of the FSF Europe.
              This includes the FSF Europe and associated
              organizations.</p>
            </dd>

            <dt><b>FSF Europe - Chapter Germany</b></dt>

            <dd>
              <p> <a href=
              "mailto:chancellor@germany.fsfeurope.org">
              chancellor@germany.fsfeurope.org</a> To contact the
              Chancellor &amp; Vice-Chancellor of Germany.
              Currently held by <b>Bernhard Reiter</b> and <b>
              Werner Koch</b>.</p>

              <p> <a href="mailto:germany@fsfeurope.org">
              germany@fsfeurope.org</a> To contact everyone
              involved in the public German activities of the FSF
              Europe. This includes the FSF Europe and
              associates.</p>
            </dd>

            <dt><b>FSF Europe - Chapter Italy</b></dt>

            <dd>
              <p> <a href=
              "mailto:chancellor@italy.fsfeurope.org">
              chancellor@italy.fsfeurope.org</a> To contact the
              Chancellor &amp; Vice-Chancellor of Italy.
              Currently held by <b>Stefano Maffulli</b> and <b>
              Christopher R. Gabriel</b>.</p>

              <p> <a href="mailto:italy@fsfeurope.org">
              italy@fsfeurope.org</a> To contact everyone
              involved in the public Italian activities of the FSF
              Europe. This includes the FSF Europe and
              associates.</p>
            </dd>

          </dl>
<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
