<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Contact Information</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div>
      <h2>Mailing Lists</h2>

      <p>
        If you are interested in general discussion about the
        FSFE or would like to participate, please join one of our
        <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo">mailing lists</a>.
      </p>

      <h2>Internet Relay Chat</h2>

      <p>
        On irc.freenode.net, we have registered a channel #fsfeurope for
        general on-line discussion.
      </p>

      <h2>Contact</h2>

      <p>
        In this section we will provide you with contact
        information for specific individuals or functions. It
        also informs you about the internal structure of the
        FSFE.
      </p>

      <dl>
        <dt><b>Postal address</b></dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
            Villa Vogelsang<br/>
            Antonienallee 1<br/>
            45279 Essen<br/>
            Germany<br/>
            Phone: ++49  700 - 373387673 (++49 700 FSFEUROPE)<br/>
            European office e-mail: <a href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">office@fsfeurope.org</a>
          </p>
        </dd>

        <dt><b>Generic email address</b></dt>

        <dd>
          <p>
            <a href="mailto:team@fsfeurope.org">team@fsfeurope.org</a> To
            contact everyone in the FSF Europe.
          </p>
        </dd>

        <dt><b>President and office</b></dt>

        <dd>
          <p>
            <a href="mailto:president@fsfeurope.org">president@fsfeurope.org</a>
            Address of the President of the FSF Europe. Currently
            held by <b><a href="/about/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a></b> and
            <b>Jonas Öberg</b>.
          </p>

          <p>
            <a href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">office@fsfeurope.org</a> For
            contacting the office of the FSF Europe. Current head of office is
            <b>Werner Koch</b>.
          </p>
        </dd>

        <dt><b>FSF Europe - Austria</b></dt>

        <dd>
          <p>
            <a href="mailto:austria@fsfeurope.org"> austria@fsfeurope.org</a>
            To contact everyone involved in the Austrian activities of the FSF
            Europe.  This includes the FSF Europe and associated organisations.
          </p>
        </dd>

        <dt><b>FSF Europe - Chapter Germany</b></dt>

        <dd>
          <p>
            <a href="mailto:chancellor@germany.fsfeurope.org">chancellor@germany.fsfeurope.org</a>
            To contact the Chancellor &amp; Vice-Chancellor of Germany.
            Currently held by <b>Bernhard Reiter</b> and <b>Werner Koch</b>.
          </p>

          <p> <a href="mailto:germany@fsfeurope.org">germany@fsfeurope.org</a>
            To contact everyone involved in the public German activities of the
            FSF Europe. This includes the FSF Europe and associates.
          </p>
        </dd>

        <dt><b>FSF Europe - Chapter Italy</b></dt>

        <dd>
          <p>
            Phone (office): +39 02 34 537 127<br/>
            Fax (office): +39 02 34 531 282
          </p>
              
          <p> <a href="mailto:chancellor@italy.fsfeurope.org">chancellor@italy.fsfeurope.org</a>
            To contact the Chancellor &amp; Vice-Chancellor of Italy.
            Currently held by <b>Stefano Maffulli</b> and
            <b>Christopher R. Gabriel</b>.
          </p>

          <p>
            <a href="mailto:italy@fsfeurope.org">italy@fsfeurope.org</a>
            To contact everyone involved in the public Italian activities of
            the FSF Europe. This includes the FSF Europe and associates.
          </p>
        </dd>
      </dl>
    </div>
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
