<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - IPRED2 - How to get it fixed</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <h1>IPRED2: How to get it fixed</h1>

    <p>For an introduction to this issue, see
    our <a href="/projects/ipred2/ipred2.html">main IPRED2 page</a>.</p>

    <ol>
      <li><a href="#aims">Aims of this document</a></li>
      <li><a href="#power">Who can directly influence the what?</a>
	<ol>
	  <li><a href="#parliament">In the European Parliament</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#council">In the Council</a></li>
	</ol>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#say">Explaining our concerns</a>
	<ol>
	  <li><a href="#bullets">Some usable bullet points</a></li>
	</ol>
      </li>
        <li><a href="#informal-amendments">What sort of amendments do we want</a>
	<ol>
	  <li><a href="#directive-amendments">To the Directive</a>
	    <ol>
	      <li><a href="#directive-art3">Article 3</a></li>
	      <li><a href="#directive-art4">Article 4</a></li>
	    </ol>
	  </li>
	  <li><a href="#framework-decision-amendments">To the Framework Decision</a>
	    <ol>
	      <li><a href="#framework-decision-art4">Article 4</a></li>
	      <li><a href="#framework-decision-art6">Article 6</a></li>
	    </ol>
	  </li>
	</ol>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#links">External links</a></li>
    </ol>

    <h2 id="aims">Aims of this document</h2>

    <p>
      This document should give you the information you need to start
      working on getting IPRED2 fixed.  The main questions this
      document tries to answer are: &quot;Who do I write to?&quot; and
      &quot;What can I ask them to do?&quot; This document ends with
      informal suggestions for how this proposal could be amended.
      Note that these are not our proposals, just some ideas which we
      will look into.
    </p>

    <p>
      If this document doesn't have what you're looking for, try
      asking on the
      <a id="mailing-list"
      href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/ipred2">IPRED2
      mailing list</a> (a publicly archived list, hosted by FSFE).
    </p>


    <h2 id="power">Who can directly influence the proposal?</h2>

    <p>
      The IPRED2 proposal (<a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2005/com2005_0276en01.pdf">com(2005)276</a>)
      has two parts: pages 2 to 8 of the proposal are a Directive, and
      pages 9 to 15 are a Council Framework Decision.
    </p>

    <p>
      To check the current status of the proposal, see 
      <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/oeil/FindByProcnum.do?lang=en&amp;procnum=COD/2005/0127">the
      Directive's entry in the Legislative Observatory</a>, or
      <a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/prelex/detail_dossier_real.cfm?CL=en&amp;DosId=193131">its
      entry in the PreLex</a>, and see 
      <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/oeil/FindByProcnum.do?lang=en&amp;procnum=CNS/2005/0128">The
      Framework Decision's entry in the Legislative Observatory</a>, or 
      <a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/prelex/detail_dossier_real.cfm?CL=en&amp;DosId=193133">its
      entry in the PreLex</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      For the Directive, the EP and the Council have approximately
      equal power and they accept/reject amendments to the Directive
      based on majority votes.  The focus usually switches back and
      forth between these two institutions.  The European Parliament
      will probably vote first, then the Council, then the Parliament
      again.  The timeline is not predictable, and at the time of
      writing this document, the date for even the first vote (which
      will be by the Parliament) has not been set.  If you need to ask
      someone about which body is currently most involved in the
      Directive, you could ask on <a href="#mailing-list">the above
      mentioned mailing list</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      For the Council Framework Decision, unanimity in the Council is
      required.  The European Parliament has an advisory role, which
      is of limited influence.
    </p>


    <h3 id="parliament">The European Parliament</h3>

    <p>
      The most influential MEPs for both parts of this Proposal, are
      the MEPs that are members of the Legal Affairs committee -
      usually called &quot;JURI&quot;.  This committee has been
      assigned responsibility for both parts of this proposal because
      it is the expert group on legal matters.
    </p>

    <p>
      Before the European Parliament votes on this Directive, JURI
      will have a vote on the proposed amendments, and the result will
      be passed to the rest of the MEPs as a non-binding
      recommendation.
      See: <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/expert/searchForm/search.do?name=&amp;committee=1247&amp;delegation=&amp;body=&amp;country=">the
      list of the members of JURI</a>.  The person in JURI who is
      responsible for this Directive (the &quot;Rapporteur&quot;) is
      <a href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/public/yourMep/view.do?language=EN&amp;id=28419">Nicola
      Zingaretti</a> (PSE, Italy).
    </p>

    <p>
      As well as being able to vote for a recommendation before the
      Parliament's vote, JURI members are influential because other
      MEPs expect them to have a good understanding of legal matters,
      and they're expected to have paid particular attention to this
      Directive since their committee is responsible for it.  For
      these reasons, many non-JURI MEPs will ask JURI MEPs for advice
      on this issue.  So it's important that JURI members understand
      the problems with this Directive and Framework Decision.
    </p>

    <p>
      In addition three other committees will draft Opinions.  The
      three committees are Industry, Research and Energy (called
      &quot;ITRE&quot;), Internal Market and Consumer Protection
      (called &quot;IMCO&quot;), and Civil Liberties, Justice and Home
      Affairs (called &quot;LIBE&quot;).  While JURI is the committee
      that is expert on this issue, these three other committees are
      experts in topics which are affected by or related to the topic
      of the Directive.  So, these don't carry as much weight as
      JURI's Recommendation, but they still have an extra voice that
      we can ask them to use.
      See: <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/expert/searchForm/search.do?name=&amp;committee=1240&amp;delegation=&amp;body=&amp;country=">the
      list of members of ITRE</a>,
      and <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/expert/searchForm/search.do?name=&amp;committee=1241&amp;delegation=&amp;body=&amp;country=">the
      list of members of IMCO</a>,
      and <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/expert/searchForm/search.do?name=&amp;committee=1248&amp;delegation=&amp;body=&amp;country=">the
      list of members of LIBE</a>.
    </p>


    <h3 id="council">The Council</h3>

    <p>
      The Council is made of one Minister nominated by the government
      of each member state.  Council meetings are chaired by the
      Minister of the country which has the presidency.  Governments
      choose their representative based on the topic of the
      legislation.  Your country's representative cannot be predicted
      with certainty, but it is highly likely that the Minister chosen
      by your country's government will be the same Minister that
      represented your country for the software patents issue.
    </p>

    <p>
      The likelihood is reinforced
      by <a
      href="http://register.consilium.eu.int/servlet/driver?lang=EN&amp;typ=Advanced&amp;cmsid=639&amp;ff_COTE_DOCUMENT=&amp;ff_COTE_DOSSIER_INST=2005%2F0127%28COD%29&amp;ff_TITRE=&amp;ff_FT_TEXT=&amp;ff_SOUS_COTE_MATIERE=&amp;dd_DATE_DOCUMENT=&amp;dd_DATE_REUNION=&amp;dd_FT_DATE=&amp;fc=REGAISEN&amp;srm=25&amp;md=100&amp;ssf=&amp;rc=1&amp;nr=1&amp;page=Detail">the
      Council Documents register page for this proposal</a> which
      describes the subject matter as being &quot;DROIPEN, PI&quot;
      (which refers to &quot;Substantive Criminal Law&quot;,
      &quot;Intellectual Property&quot;) - topics that are likely to
      to be decided on by the Competitiveness Council - the same group
      of Ministers that debated the software patents directive.
    </p>

    <p>
      For example, the Republic of Ireland's representative was the
      Minister of Enterprise, Trade, and Employment.  During the
      software patents issue, this was Mary Harney.  She has since
      been replaced by Micheál Martin.  So Irish people should try to
      make Minister Martin aware of the problems with the proposal.
    </p>

    <p>
      The Minister will usually consult a National body.  For example,
      in Ireland, the Minister for Enterprise, Trade, and Employment,
      and he will consult the Department of Enterprise, Trade, and
      Employment.  In the UK it is the Patents and Trademarks Office.
      Some countries may have further governmental bodies for
      reviewing EU legislative proposals.  In the Republic of Ireland,
      there is a government sub-committee called the EU Scrutiny
      Committee.  (If you can provide information of relevent bodies
      in other countries, please email <a href="#mailing-list">the
      above-mentioned IPRED2 mailing list</a>).
    </p>

    <p>
      Getting into dialogue with the Council has proven in the past to
      be more difficult than getting into dialogue with the MEPs.  So
      it is more important to try this, since few will succeed.
    </p>


    <h2 id="say">Explaining our concerns</h2>

    <p>
      A lesson from the software patents directive is that was have to
      be precise about how we explain ourselves.  Words we use can
      have completely different meaning when discussing EU legislation
      For example, when we say &quot;technical&quot;, we mean
      &quot;complex&quot; - when EU legislation says
      &quot;technical&quot; it means &quot;is patentable&quot;.
    </p>

    <p>
      We also have to be concise.  MEPs love 1-page letters and bullet
      points.  2 pages is the maximum they can be expected to read.
      If you're writing a letter and you feel that a topic has to be
      explained in detail, you could include a summary in the letter
      and mention that for a fuller explanation, the MEP can contact
      you - or can contact someone such as FSFE.
    </p>

    <p>
      FSFE's Brussels
      Representative, <a href="/about/oriordan/">Ciaran O'Riordan</a>
      could be available for in-person meetings with MEPs or their
      assistants.
    </p>

    <p>
      To friendly MEPs, particularly those who are not on the above
      mentioned committees, a very short letter is recommended.
      Probably starting with &quot;This is just a short email to let
      you know about about a new directive: 2005/0127(COD) (part of
      com(2005)276)...&quot;.
    </p>

    <p>
      Always mention the number of the document you're writing about.
      The Directive is 2005/0127(COD), and the Council Framework
      Decision is 2005/0128(CNS).  The complete proposal - the
      document containing the Directive and the Framework Decision -
      is com(2005)276.
    </p>

    <p>
      Make sure you sound calm and thoughful. In the software patents
      direcitive, some MEPs complained about angry or aggressive phone
      calls and letters.
    </p>

    <h3 id="bullets">Some usable bullet points</h3>

    <p>
      Here are some bullet points which may be useful for explaining
      our concerns in an email:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
	The justifications are not mirrored by the text.  The
	justifications are mostly about organised crime and the
	prevention of health and safety risks - but the actual text of
	the Articles includes no such limit.  (The Framework Decision
	does, but the Directive doesn't.)
      </li>

      <li>
	Don't rely on examples from the USA.  Many EU member states
	already have criminal sanctions for copyright infringement.
	So we need to use European examples.
      </li>

      <li>
	&quot;Commercial scale&quot; has no definition.
      </li>

      <li>
	The Directive talks about &quot;intentional
	infringements&quot;, but there is no explanation as to whether
	this means that the infringer had to have been planning the
	infringement, or just planning the act which turned out to be
	an infringement.  For example, if I write some software and I
	accidentally make unauthorised use of a trademark.  Is that an
	intentional infringement?  My act of writing software was
	intentional, but it wasn't my intention to infringe the
	trademark.
      </li>

      <li>
	The Directive, as published by the Commission, will fail it's
	objective of harmonising EU law.  Being extremely vague, it
	will
	<ol>
	  <li>give insufficient guidelines for legislators
	    transcribing it into national law</li>
	  <li>require further clarification by the national courts</li>
	  <li>probably cause yet another Directive later on to
	    harmonise the mess created.</li>
	</ol>
      </li>

      <li>
	Unlike previous decades, in the information age, the general
	public participates in the production and distribution of
	copyrighted materials.  Trademarks can be used very easily,
	but some uses are legal and others are illegal.  The public
	will make mistakes.  Civil penalties are sufficient for this.
	Patents and copyright are also easily infringed by the public
	today.
      </li>

      <li>
	Criminal law is commonly reserved for acts which carry no
	doubt among the general public about their criminality.
	Murder, rape, kidnapping, and assault is not a grouping which
	should have copyright infringement added to it.
      </li>

      <li>
	The threat of criminal sanctions will reduce the public's
	freedom, not by expanding legislation but by turning grey
	areas and areas of uncertainty into no-go areas - and business
	no-go areas.
      </li>

      <li>
	The almost 50,000 software patents that the European Patent
	Office has granted, still exist, but European programmers can
	be confident that >95% of litigation based on such patents
	will fail.  However, if that 5% threat carried a criminal
	record and the possibility of jail time, large fines, closure
	of business, and other penalties.  Software development could
	be chilled.
      </li>

      <li>
	Since the European Copyright Directive, as well as regulating
	copying, copyright now regulates how the public can use
	technology to access copyrighted material.  This has created
	many grey areas about how software developers can examine
	their competitors products to make interoperable systems and
	about what software is legal (and what software is &quot;a
	protection circumvention device&quot;).  Also, by making
	useful acts illegal, it has created new illegal-but-tolerated
	acts (such writing software to play standard DVDs).
      </li>

      <li>
	Copyright law also restricts the publication of technical
	information.  The misunderstanding should be clarified,
	&quot;copyright&quot; as it exists today, is not only about
	copying information, but also about publication of and reading
	information.
      </li>

      <li>
	Most of the harm of this Directive is caused by it's lack of
	precision.  Such unclarity should not be pushed on the public.
	Those behind this Directive should not be afraid of being
	precise about what they are interested in seeing criminalised.
      </li>

      <li>
	In the software world where there are many areas of legal
	uncertainty, and a lot of partisan misinformation about what
	is legal.  The combination of harsh punishments and
	misinformation will scare the public away from many activities
	that are legal.
      </li>

    </ul>

    <h2 id="informal-amendments">What sort of amendments do we want</h2>

    <p>
      FSFE have not compiled a formal package of amendments, but here
      are some ideas which should be considered.  I must emphasise
      that these are informal suggestions, to aid understanding of
      what we hope to achieve.  Our actual proposed amendments will
      surely be different to these.
    </p>

    <p>
      Suggestions of improvements or alternatives are sought.  Please
      email <a href="#mailing-list">the above-mentioned IPRED2 mailing
      list</a>.
    </p>

    <h3 id="directive-amendments">To the Directive</h3>


    <h4 id="directive-art3">Article 3</h4>

    <dl>
      <dt>&quot;On a commercial scale&quot;</dt>

      <dd>
	This wording should be kept because it is the wording of the
	TRIPS agreement.  However, it must be given an definition.
	The definition should require that the action be
	&quot;for-profit&quot;, and that it's commercial harm be
	&quot;direct&quot;.  Otherwise almost every act could fall
	under a loose definitin such as: indirect actions which cause
	loss of potential financial earnings.
      </dd>

      <dt>&quot;Intentional infringement&quot;</dt>

      <dd>
	This is a difficult term to define.  The problem of lack of
	clarity can probably be solved by defining this as &quot;in
	conscious violation of the law&quot;.  Also, this definition
	will solve the problem that an infringement could otherwise be
	called intentional simply because it is part of an intentional
	activity (such as writing software or reading a webpage).
	However, if being conscious of the law changes your act from a
	civil offense to a criminal offense - reading about law
	becomes dangerous.  Also, rights-holders could have the power
	to convert infringers from civil offenders to criminals simply
	by sending a threat letter (even though the recipient doesn't
	know the validity of it).  TRIPS uses the term
	&quot;willful&quot;.
      </dd>

      <dt>&quot;aiding and abetting&quot;</dt>

      <dd>
	These words may have to be completely removed.  If not, they
	will have to be qualified even more so than actually making an
	infringement.  For example, they would have to also be doing
	willfully, and directly for profit.
      </dd>

    </dl>

    <h4 id="directive-art4">Article 4</h4>

    <p>
      Article 4 of the Directive lists what punishments must be
      available for those who commit one of the crimes created by
      Article 3.  Article 4 is therefore not as important for us.  If
      Article 3 is limited so that it doesn't add potential
      criminality to software development, Article 4 will be of no
      consequence to software developers.
    </p>



    <h3 id="framework-decision-amendments">To the Framework Decision</h3>


    <h4 id="framework-decision-art4">Article 4</h4>

    <dl>
      
      <dt>&quot;holders of intellectual property rights are ...
      allowed to assist the investigations carried out by joint
      investigation teams&quot;</dt>

      <dd>
	For this, &quot;assist&quot; should be defined as a
	requirement for rights-holders to provided information which
	they claim to have regarding an infringement.
      </dd>

    </dl>

    <h4 id="framework-decision-art6">Article 6</h4>

    <dl>
      
      <dt>&quot;ensure the possibility of initiating investigations
      into, or procescution of ... are not dependent on a report or
      accusation&quot;</dt>

      <dd>
	This enables national enforcement agencies to enforce people's
	&quot;intellectual property rights&quot; - even when the
	rights holder does not request it.  It could probably be fixed
	by limiting it (using a wording borrowed from Article 3 of the
	Framework Decision) to infringemtns which are believed to have
	been &quot;committed under the aegis of a
	criminal organisation&quot;.
      </dd>

    </dl>


    <h2 id="links">External links</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>
	<a href="http://wiki.ffii.org/Ipred2En">FFII's IPRED2 page</a>
      </li>

      <li>
	<a href="http://www.fipr.org/copyright/ipred2.html">FIPR's IPRED2 page</a>
      </li>

      <li>
	<a href="http://ue.eu.int/uedocs/cmsUpload/code_EN.pdf">The
	Council's Guide to the Co-decision procedure</a> (retrieved
	from <a
	href="http://ue.eu.int/cms3_fo/showPage.asp?id=447&amp;lang=en&amp;mode=g">here</a>)
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/en/about/abc/abc_21.html">The
	European Parliament's Guide to EU legislative procedures
	(include Co-decision)</a>
      </li>

      <li>
	<a href="http://ue.eu.int/">Website of the Council of the
	European Union</a>
      </li>

      <li>
	<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EU_Directive_on_Criminal_Measures_Aimed_at_Ensuring_the_Enforcement_of_Intellectual_Property_Rights">Wikipedia's entry about this proposal</a>
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://www.fsfe.org/en/fellows/ciaran/weblog/20_minutes_against_software_patents">A
	weblog entry about lobbying in limited time</a> (this was
	written for the software patents directive but the principles
	are equally valid for IRPED2)
      </li>

    </ul>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
