<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - IPRED2 - The second &quot;Intellectual
    Property Rights&quot; Enforcement Directive</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <h1>IPRED2</h1>

    <ol>
      <li><a href="#summary">Summary</a></li>
      <li><a href="#harm">Harmful effects on software freedom</a>
	<ol>
	  <li><a href="#swpat">Software patents: Enforcement through fear</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#models">Harm to efficient software production/distribution models</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#abuse">Encouragement of commercial abuse, like SCO's</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#indemnification">Inability to indemnify</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#grey-areas">Developers in grey areas: DeCSS, filesharing</a></li>
	</ol>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#text">Reading the proposal text</a>
	<ol>
	  <li><a href="#directive">The Directive &quot;2005/0127(COD)&quot;</a></li>
	  <li><a href="#framework-decision">The Council Framework
	      Decision &quot;2005/0128(CNS)&quot;</a></li>
	</ol>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#options">What we can work for</a></li>
      <li><a href="#todo">What needs to be done immediately</a></li>
      <li><a href="#links">External links</a></li>
    </ol>

    <h2 id="summary">Summary</h2>

    <p>
      IPRED2, The second &quot;Intellectual Property&quot; Rights
      Enforcement Directive, has at its core:
    </p>

    <p class="quote">
      &quot;Member States shall ensure that all intentional
      infringements of an intellectual property right on a commercial
      scale, and attempting, aiding or abetting and inciting such
      infringements, are treated as criminal offences.&quot;<br />
      (Article 3.  Page 6 of the dossier: <a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2005/com2005_0276en01.pdf">com(2005)276</a>)
    </p>

    <p>
      The EU definition of &quot;Intellectual property rights&quot;
      lumps together patents, copyright, trademarks, design
      protections, and many other categories of law.  No definition is
      given for &quot;intentional&quot; or &quot;commercial
      scale&quot;, and no examples are given for what would be
      included or what would be excluded.
    </p>


    <h2 id="harm">Harmful effects on software freedom</h2>


    <h3 id="swpat">Software patents: Enforcement through fear</h3>

    <p>
      Although the European Patent Convention excludes software from
      patentability, the European Patent Office is granting patents on
      software ideas.  While &gt;90% of litigation based on such
      patents would fail in court, they give the patent holders a
      legal basis for threatening software producers/distributors with
      litigation.  The threat of jail time, massive fines, seizing of
      assets, and closure of business could generate enough fear among
      computer users to make people obey these patents as if they were
      valid.  (For more on the issue of software patents, see the page
      about <a href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">FSFE's work to
      prevent software patentability</a>.)
    </p>


    <h3 id="models">Harm to efficient software production/distribution models</h3>

    <p>
      Greatly increasing the risks involved in software development
      and distribution will indirectly discriminate against many
      software models.  High legal risks are easier to bare for bodies
      with large funds and full time legal staff.
      <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>, which
      is often contributed to by individuals, by Small- and
      Medium-sized Enterprises, and by businesses whose core business
      is not software, would be one category of software which would
      bare this indirect discrimination.
    </p>


    <h3 id="abuse">Encouragement of commercial abuse, like SCO's</h3>

    <p>
      Giving litigators increased access to the resources of national
      enforcement bodies, and increasing the severity of effects which
      can be achieved by litigation, will encourage people to use
      litigation as a commercial tool in the market.
    </p>

    <p>
      SCO in the USA is a well-known example of this: without proving
      anything or even showing any evidence, they have accused IBM and
      others of intentional, commercial-scale &quot;IP&quot;
      infringement, and have slowed the adoption rate of Free Software
      such as
      the <a
      href="http://www.gnu.org/gnu/the-gnu-project.html">GNU/Linux</a>
      operating system and harmed the reputation of a handful of
      companies (competitors to Microsoft, one of SCO's major
      funders).
    </p>


    <h3 id="indemnification">Inability to indemnify</h3>

    <p>
      Since criminal offenses cannot be indemnified against, patent
      litigation insurance would not be possible, and software
      producers could no longer provide indemnity to distributors of
      their software.
    </p>


    <h3 id="grey-areas">Developers in grey areas: DeCSS, filesharing</h3>

    <p>
      The European Copyright Directive (<a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/smartapi/cgi/sga_doc?smartapi!celexplus!prod!CELEXnumdoc&amp;lg=EN&amp;numdoc=32001L0029">com(2001)29ec</a>)
      greatly increased the scope of copyright law.  As well
      as prohibiting unauthorised copying of information, copyright
      law now restricts how the public can use technology to access or
      view copyrighted information.  For example, you are a copyright
      infringer if you develop your own software to watch a standard
      DVD that you have bought.  Writing software to share files with
      others over a network could be copyright infringement; it's a
      grey area.  The threat of jail sentences and the other harsh
      measures in this directive could scare people away from writing
      or publishing many types of useful software, including types of
      software which are illegal-but-tolerated or which are grey areas.
    </p>



    <h2 id="text">Reading the proposal text</h2>

    <p>
      The IPRED2 proposal (<a
      href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2005/com2005_0276en01.pdf">com(2005)276</a>)
      has two parts: pages 2 to 8 of the proposal are a Directive, and
      pages 9 to 15 are a Council Framework Decision.
    </p>


    <h3 id="directive">The Directive &quot;2005/0127(COD)&quot;</h3>

    <p>
      EP Responsible committee: Legal Affairs (JURI)<br />
      EP Rapporteur: <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/public/yourMep/view.do?language=EN&amp;id=28419">Nicola
      Zingaretti</a> (PSE, Italy).<br />
      EP committees giving opinions: Industry, Research and Energy
      (ITRE), Internal Market and Consumer Protection (IMCO), Civil
      Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE).
    </p>

    <p>
      The major problems with the Directive are Articles 3 and 4
      (pages 6 and 7 of the document).  Article 3 is quoted in
      full <a href="#summary">above</a>.  Article 4 lists the harsh
      punishments that must be made available for the actions
      described in Article 3.  These include jail sentences, fines,
      closure of business, destruction of goods, being placed under
      judicial supervision, and a ban on access to public assistance.
    </p>

    <h4>Weak limits: &quot;intentional&quot; &amp; &quot;commercial
      scale&quot;</h4>

    <p>
      The phrase &quot;<span style="font-style: italic;">all
      intentional infringements [...] on a commercial
      scale</span>&quot;, will lead many people to think that this
      directive will only apply to pre-meditated law-breaking for
      profit.
    </p>

    <p>
      Consider a patent holder's lawyer trying to coerce a software
      developer into ceasing distribution of their software.<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Hello.  Your infringing our patent, cease
      distribution of your software.&quot;<br />
      Software developer: &quot;There must be a mistake.  I've never
      read a patent, and anyway, software functionality isn't
      patentable in the EU.&quot;<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Well, the European Patent Office granted this
      patent, and you infringe it&quot;<br />
      Software developer: &quot;It's very unlikely to be held up in
      court.&quot;<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Since you intentionally wrote your software, and
      since your software is affecting the softwar market, your
      infringment is intentional and commercial scale - that makes you
      a criminal.  Will you cease distribution or risk getting a
      criminal record and possibly having your business closed, a
      large fine imposed, and maybe spend some time in jail?&quot;<br />
      Software developer: &quot;...but, my software development was
      intentional, but my infringement wasn't.  I didn't even know
      about this dubiously valid patent.&quot;<br />
      Lawyer: &quot;Well, since I've accused you of infringing it,
      you're aware of it now.  So any continued infringement is
      definitely intentional.  Will you now cease
      distribution?&quot;
    </p>

    <p>
      A simpler example is a person playing songs on the street for
      the change that people throw.  The proposed text makes the
      musician a criminal if any song they play is copyrighted and is
      played without first obtaining a license.  It also makes the
      person that drove them into the city centre a criminal, for
      aiding the infringement.  People that throw money or stand
      around a listen could be criminals for inciting the
      infringement.  And anyone that can prevent the infringement, but
      doesn't, is a criminal for abetting the infringement.  This type
      of example can be useful to help people to understand how
      ludicrous the text is, but it doesn't explain the harm to
      software freedom, so it's only good as a stepping stone to
      further understanding.
    </p>


    <h3 id="framework-decision">The Council Framework Decision &quot;2005/0128(CNS)&quot;</h3>

    <p>
      EP Responsible committee: Legal Affairs (JURI)<br />
      EP Rapporteur: <a
      href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/members/public/yourMep/view.do?language=EN&amp;id=4336">Janelly
      Fourtou</a> (ALDE, France.  Wife of the 
      Chairman &amp; CEO of Vivendi Universal).<br />
      EP committees giving opinions: Industry, Research and Energy
      (ITRE), Internal Market and Consumer Protection (IMCO), Civil
      Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE).
    </p>

    <p>
      The Council Framework Decision is there to ensure that the
      European Union has permission from the Member States to enact
      directives which require criminal sanctions for
      &quot;intellectual property right&quot; infringements.  The
      major problems with the Framework Decision are in Article 4
      (page 13):
    </p>

    <p class="quote">&quot;The Member States must ensure that the
      holders of intellectual property rights concerned, or their
      representatives, and experts, are allowed to assist the
      investigations carried out by joint investigation teams into the
      offences referred to in Article 3 of Directive
      ..../.../EC.&quot;
    </p>

    <p>
      Also of concern is Article 6 (page 14) which says that Member
      States should investigate and prosecute &quot;intellectual
      property right&quot; infringements, even when the rights-holder
      has not requested it.
    </p>


    <h2 id="options">What we can work for</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>
	We can ask our national governments to reject the Council
	Framework Decision.  This may remove the legal foundation for
	the criminal sanctions provisions in the Directive, however <a
	href="http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2-1779849,00.html">a
	recent ruling by the European Court of Justice suggests that
	it may not</a>.  The Framework Decision needs unanimity from
	the 25 member states and is worth rejecting for other reasons
	anyway (stated <a href="#framework-decision">above</a>).
      </li>

      <li>
	We can ask the European Parliament and the Council of
	Ministers to limit criminal sanctions to cases where the
	infringement was done to fund organised crime or causes a
	health or safety risk to the public.  Organised crime and
	public health and safety risks are stated as the
	justifications of this directive, so tying the Articles to the
	justifications seems reasonable.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can ask the European Parliament and the Council of
	Ministers to remove the criminalisation of &quot;attempting,
	aiding or abetting and inciting [intellectual property right]
	infringements&quot;.  For most (if not all) EU member states,
	this is proposing harsher punishments for incitement or
	abetting of &quot;intellectual property right&quot;
	infringements than currently exist for actually committing
	such an infringement.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can build pressure in the European Parliament to simply
	reject this Directive.  Drafting law is the European
	Commission's responsibility, not the European Parliament.
	Since the Commission has handed the Parliament this directive
	which is basically one single sentence, it would be reasonable
	for the Parliament to reject this proposal on the grounds that
	the Commission has not done its job.
      </li>

      <li>
	We can work with our national governments to remove Article 4
	and Article 6 from the Council Framework Decision.  It might
	be sufficient to amend these Articles to limit them to cases
	where organised crime is being funded or where there is a
	health or safety risk to the public, however, when used to
	justify invasive investigative powers such limits will not be
	completely effective since the accuracy of claimed links to
	organised crime may not be confirmable before the invasive
	investigation begins.
      </li>

    </ul>


    <h2 id="todo">What needs to be done immediately</h2>

    <p>
      FSFE has a public mailing list for coordinating work on this
      directive.  If you would like to help, please sign
      up: <a
      href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/ipred2">https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/ipred2</a>
    </p>

    <p>
      Many Member States already have criminal sanctions for copyright
      and trademark infringement, and some even have criminal
      sanctions for patent infringement.  When politicians ask
      &quot;What harm have existing criminal sanctions caused in other
      EU Member States?&quot; we need to have a list of good examples.
    </p>

    <p>
      This list has to be gathered, and for that we need your help.
    </p>


    <h2 id="links">External links</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>
	The proposal: <a
        href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/LexUriServ/site/en/com/2005/com2005_0276en01.pdf">com(2005)276</a>.
        (Also linked to above.)
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://europa.eu.int/prelex/detail_dossier_print.cfm?CL=en&amp;DosID=193131">The
	European Union information page (&quot;prelex&quot;) for this proposal</a>.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/oeil/FindByProcnum.do?lang=en&amp;procnum=COD/2005/0127">The
	European Parliament information page for the Directive</a>.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/oeil/FindByProcnum.do?lang=en&amp;procnum=CNS/2005/0128">The
	European Parliament information page for the Council Framework
	Decision</a>.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/not-ipr.xhtml">Did You
	Say &quot;Intellectual Property&quot;? It's a Seductive
	Mirage</a>, an essay by Richard Stallman about terminology.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/charter/default_en.htm">The
	Charter of Fundamental Rights</a>.  This Directive seems to
	violate Article 49 on proportionality of criminal penalties.
      </li>

      <li>
	A ZDNet UK article: <a
	href="http://insight.zdnet.co.uk/business/legal/0,39020487,39211542,00.htm">Making
	IP infringement a crime</a>.
      </li>

      <li>
	<a
	href="http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/en/com/pdf/2000/com2000_0789en01.pdf">com(2000)789</a>,
	a related Communication from the Commission.
      </li>

    </ul>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
