<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Contribute to Free Software</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <h2>Contribute to Free Software</h2>

    <p id="introduction">
      If you wish to contribute back to Free Software, FSFE always
      welcomes help from volunteers.  Our work is made possible thanks
      to this community of people who wish to keep us going strong for
      Free Software.  No matter what your skills are or how much time
      you have, there's always a way to help us!  For example, you can
      <a href="/donate/">make a small donation</a>.  With only a few
      minutes per week, you can <a href="/contribute/translators/">help
        translate our website</a> quickly.
    </p>


    <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/">Join the
          Fellowship</a></h3>

        <p>
          The Fellowship is the primary way people can support our
          organisation.  The community of fellows contributes to our work
          and helps us for our campagins or on our booths.
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/contribute/web/">Contribute to the
          website</a></h3>

        <p>
          Our website needs to give a good impression.  Help us, <a
            href="/contribute/translator/">become a translator</a> or <a
            href="/contribute/web/">become a webmaster</a>.  Take a look
          also on <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/">our wiki</a>, and
          contribute to it!
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="#">Spread the word!</a></h3>

        <p>
          Spread <a hreF="#">these graphics</a> to show the visitors of
          your website that you care about Free Software and FSFE!
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/contribute/intern/">Internship</a></h3>

        <p>
          FSFE operates in a very international environment and it is
          involved in legal, political and educational acitivites at
          various levels.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/contact/community.html">Join our mailing
          lists</a></h3>

        <p>
          FSFE has Europe-wide, country-specific and activity-focused
          mailing lists.  Depending on which topic you're interested in,
          or in which area you live, you will find a place in this
          community.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/contact/local.html">Get involved with your country
          teams</a></h3>

        <p>
          In many countries, FSFE has <a href="/contact/local.html">a
            local team</a>.  If you want to get deeply involved with
          FSFE's work, contact them.  FSFE is trying to be actively
          working all across Europe, you may be interested in <a
            href="#">starting a local team yourself!</a>
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/donate/">Make a donation</a></h3>

        <p>
          <a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">Your donations</a> allow us
          to be autonomous and to keep going strong for Free Software.
          With your contribution, you lay the foundations for
          incorruptible and undeviating work.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>

  </body>
</html>

