<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - How can you get involved?</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>How can you get involved?</h1>

    <p>
      FSFE has Europe-wide, country-specific and activity-focused
      <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo">mailing lists</a>.
      You can meet members of your local Free Software community through the
      lists and you can support the work and goals of FSFE by volunteering for
      pro-active work. Contributions of time and energy are always welcome.
    </p>

    <p>
      To get started you can subscribe to a list in your specific area of
      interest or you can send an email to
      <a href="mailto:team@fsfeurope.org">team@fsfeurope.org</a> and we will
      help you out.
    </p>

    <p>
      Here are some specific ways you can contribute to the Free Software
      movement in Europe:
    </p>

    <h2>Fellowship</h2>

    <p>
      The easiest and most straightforward way of becoming involved with the
      Free Software Foundation Europe is to join the
      <a href="https://fellowship.fsfe.org/">Fellowship of FSFE</a>. As Fellow, you
      add your visible support and contribution to all activities of the FSFE,
      are in touch with other likeminded people, meet up with them to celebrate
      "Freedom Parties" and your personalised
      <a href="https://fellowship.fsfe.org/card.html">Fellowship Crypto-SmartCard</a> can
      be worn as visible sign of the tech-savvy person that is actively
      contributing to freedom in the digital age.
    </p>

	<h2>Web pages</h2>

    <p>
      Web pages are a constant bottleneck. Keeping them up to date and
      available in as many languages as possible requires permanent attention.
      At the same time it is one of the most efficient ways of informing about
      Free Software, issues of digital society and the work of the FSFE.
    </p>

    <p>
      Giving a hand is possible and very much appreciated on both an irregular
      as well as regular basis. Please find more information and quick-start
      instructions <a href="/contribute/web/web.html">here</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>Translations</h2>

    <p>
      A central issue always in need of translations is the web page, which you
      can find some
      <a href="/contribute/translators/web.html">dedicated information</a> for.
    </p>

    <p>
      But the web page is not the only thing in need of translation and
      proofreading. Press releases, brochures and leaflets can also reach more
      people when translated.
    </p>

    <p>
      Translating and proofreading texts is a precious contribution to the work
      of the FSFE and an excellent chance to spontaneously take part in the
      activities of the FSFE without long-term obligations. We have a separate
      page with
      <a href="/contribute/translators/translators.html">information for
        translators</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>Tradeshow booths</h2>

    <p>
      The FSFE has to get in touch with people outside the community to make
      them realise there is more to Free Software than just nice programs and
      to familiarise them with the FSF.
    </p>

    <p>
      An important part of this is being present at tradeshows. But although we
      can normally provide everything needed to set up such a booth, there is
      one thing we cannot simply generate: people.
    </p>

    <p>
      We need volunteers to be present at the booths, talk to people, explain
      to them the philosophy of Free Software and what the FSF and GNU Project
      are all about and simply be there. Nothing looks worse than an empty
      tradeshow booth. Also we prefer to have local volunteers take over
      organisation of the booths.
    </p>

    <p>
      If you are interested in helping, you can find more information on our
      <a href="/contribute/booth/booth.html">Information page for booth
        volunteers</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>Internships</h2>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe operates in a very mixed environment
      of volunteers from many countries and several full-time employees, among
      with it is also possible to hold internships.
    </p>

    <p>
      So if you have a couple of months to spend on something that is both
      useful and fun and consider this as an option for yourself, check out our
      <a href="/contribute/internship.html">Join the revolution: Internships at
        FSFE</a> page for more information.
    </p>

    <h2>Donations</h2> 

    <p>
      Another way to support the work of the FSFE is through donations. As with
      any other organisation, the effectiveness of the FSFE depends on its
      financial resources. Paying people to work on and for Free Software,
      printing brochures, mailing journalists and politicians, providing
      infrastructure for projects and much more depends on this. If you feel
      you can contribute to our work financially, you will find information on
      how to do so on our <a href="/help/donate.html">donations</a> page.
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
