<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Internships - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/contribute/contribute.html">Contribute</a></p>
    <h1>Internships</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
        FSFE is a charity dedicated to empowering users to control
        technology.  We are working to build freedom in digital society. 
We operate in a lively environment of numerous volunteers from many countries 
and several full-time employees.
      </p>
    </div>

    <blockquote>

      <p>
At FSFE my time was always shared between learning and doing. When dealing with a task,
I was encouraged to research background information and to understand the political questions
underlying each issue. Curiosity is what an intern needs most.
<cite>Lucile Falgueyrac, Intern 2013-2014</cite>
      </p>

    </blockquote>
    <blockquote>

      <p>
        Working at the Free Software Foundation Europe lets you get close to
an amazing variety of topics and tasks. This diversity brings a lot of
technical, organisational, social and political experience and skills,
which are great to have for any Free Software enthusiast. 
<cite><a href="/about/jean/jean.html">Nicolas Jean</a>, Intern 2010-2011, Webmaster</cite>
      </p>


    </blockquote>


    <p>
      FSFE is looking for smart, motivated interns to join our team. We offer 
      </p>
   <ul>
        <li>
          A truly challenging and exciting time with a dynamic NGO working internationally
        </li>
        <li>
          A close-up view of organisational and community processes
        </li>
        <li>
          A chance to take the initiative and put your ideas into practice
        </li>
        <li>
          The opportunity to meet and work with Free Software advocates across Europe 
        </li>
    </ul>

    
    <h2>What you'll do:</h2>

    <ul>
        <li>
          Contribute to <a href="/work.html">FSFE's ongoing
projects</a>, working with one or more of our staff and volunteers.
        </li>
        <li>
          Communicate with contacts from the FSFE community, NGO, industry, and public administrations.
        </li>
        <li>
          Coordinate volunteers and others in the work on various projects.
        </li>
        <li>
          General office tasks.
        </li>
        <li>
          Find your own strengths, and do something you care about.
        </li>
        <li>
          Other tasks outlined in the job description when an opening is announced (see below).
        </li>
    </ul>
<p>
 
</p>

    <blockquote>
      <p>
My eleven months as trainee and part of the FSFE's international team, 
have been full with new things to learn, great people to meet, 
challenges to overcome and opportunities to grasp. There was never a 
boring day. I was involved in high-level legal and policy work as well 
as community building and awareness-raising activities. I was in the 
core preparation team of short and long-term campaigns.
<cite>Olga Gkotsopoulou, Intern 2017</cite>
      </p>
    </blockquote>


<h2>Basic internship facts: </h2>
<p>
When an internship opening is announced (primarily in our
<a href="/news/newsletter">newsletter</a>), you will find more
details about each specific internship there. Sometimes we offer
longer internships, and other times we seek applicants with
a specific focus (for instance students for summer internships).
</p>

<ul>
        <li>Duration: 3 months, full-time.</li>
        <li>Location: Berlin, Germany. </li>
        <li>Compensation: Interns receive a basic compensation, the
amount of which is announced when an opening is announced.</li>
        <li>Requirement: The internship is open to EU citizens, and
anyone else holding a residence permit and a work permit for Germany. </li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Who we're looking for:</h2>
<p> 
FSFE interns are a pretty diverse bunch. If you are interested in
working on the frontline of technology policy and activism, then
you've come to the right place. You're fired up about a free
information society, and you've already done something to tell others
why freedom matters? Then this internship is for you. Your academic
background and qualifications matter less than your experience, your
will to learn, and your ability to get things done. We expect:
</p>

    <ul>
        <li>
          Solid basic knowledge of, and considerable interest in, Free
          Software (required)
        </li>
        <li>
          Fluent English (written and spoken) is a requirement; 
          a working knowledge of other languages is an asset.
        </li>
        <li>
          Basic acquaintance with working on GNU/Linux systems (desirable)
        </li>
        <li>
         Ability to be creative, responsible, and to multitask. 
        </li>
        <li>
         Ability to integrate into a young, motivated and professional team
        </li>
        <li>
          No programming skills required. Programming is one of the
          few things you probably <i>won't</i> be doing during your
          internship, unless you're applying for a technical
          internship.
        </li>
	<li>We want more women to be involved in Free Software. That's
	why when there are candidates with equal qualification, we will give
preference to applications from suitably qualified female candidates.</li>
    </ul>


    <blockquote>
      <p>
I am passionate about Free Software and I always wanted to help with 
its promotion. That's why an offer to help the FSFE was a perfect fit 
for me. During my internship, I worked mostly on developing the FSFE's 
infrastructure and helped by adding documentation for specific tasks 
involving different services. Interns at FSFE are really useful, as 
they bring their experience and knowledge to the FSFE and, given the 
structure and openness of the organisation, are able to do meaningful 
work that has a real value.
  <cite>Vincent Lequertier, Intern 2018</cite>
      </p>
    </blockquote>

    <h2>How to apply:</h2>

    <p>
      When there's an open position for an internship, this will
      be announced in our <a href="/news/newsletter">newsletter</a>
      including information about the application deadline.
    </p>
    <p>
     <strong>Currently open positions:</strong>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="/news/2018/news-20180723-01.html">2018/2019 internship and traineeship positions</a></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>
      Each application must include, in English:
      <ul>
        <li>The reference number of the opening for which you're applying</li>
        <li>A letter of motivation</li>
        <li>A CV</li>
        <li>References</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p>
      We do not generally accept unsolicited applications, but 
      you can contact us at <a
      href="mailto:contact@fsfe.org">contact@fsfe.org</a>.
      Please <a
      href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/no-word-attachments.html">
      do not send any documents in Microsoft Word document
      format</a>. We won't read them. Best use PDF instead.
    </p>

    <p>
      We look forward to your application!
    </p>

 
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
