<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

	<head>
		<title>We offer things for free, but... - FSFE</title>
		<meta content="FSFE's Promotion Material" name="description" />
		<meta content="FSFE Graphics Buttons Logo Promotion Sticker Poster Leaflets Flyer Campaigns Free Your Android I cannot read your documents Fellowship Plussy Gnu" name="keywords" />
    
	</head>

	<body class="article">
		<p id="category"><a href="/contribute/spreadtheword.html">Spread the word!</a></p>
		
		<h1>We offer things for free, but...</h1>

  <div id="introduction">
    <p>
      Thank you for your interest in exploring our promotion material. 
      It seems you visited us via a freebie website offering things you 
      can get for free. We would like to ask you to think about your 
      reasons to order free promotion material from us.
    </p>
  </div>
  
  <p>
    The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit 
    organisation to <a href="/about/mission.html">empower users to 
    control technology</a>. We enjoy giving our volunteers and 
    interested people the possibility to order promotion and 
    information material for free to enable them to fight for <a 
    href="/freesoftware">Free Software</a>. 
  </p> 
  
  <p>
    However, as a charity we cannot afford sending out masses of 
    promotion material for personal use only. We are not making any 
    profit from providing stickers, posters and leaflets. Our strict <a 
    href="/about/legal/imprint.html#id-privacy-policy">privacy 
    policy</a> also disallows abuse of any personal information people 
    provide in the order forms.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Therefore, we would like to ask you to rethink whether you really 
    need such a package. For your decision, please consider the 
    shipping and material costs this causes, as well as the ecological 
    footprint. If you never heard of Free Software and the FSFE before, 
    please learn more about <a href="/freesoftware">Free Software</a>, 
    <a href="/work.html">our work</a> and <a 
    href="/activities/activities.html">activities</a> first.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    If you feel enthusiastic about our work, we are happy to <a 
    href="/promo">send you information material</a>. Please also have a 
    look at our latest <a href="/order">t-shirts, hoodies and 
    merchandise</a> and consider becoming a <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">supporter 
    or donor of the FSFE</a>. Thank you!
  </p>
  
	</body>
  
  <sidebar promo="our-work">
    <h2>Links</h2>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">Become a FSFE supporter</a></li>
      <li><a href="/promo">Promotion material</a></li>
      <li><a href="/order">T-shirts, hoodies and other merchandise</a></li>
    </ul>
  
  </sidebar>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
