<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Traineeship - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/contribute/contribute.html">Contribute</a></p>
    <h1>Traineeship</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
        FSFE is a charitable non-profit organisation dedicated to promoting 
        Free Software. We are working to build freedom in digital society. 
We operate in a lively environment of numerous volunteers from many countries 
and several full-time employees.
      </p>
    </div>

    <p>
      A traineeship is different from our <a
href="/contribute/internship.html">internships</a> in that our
traineeships are longer (6-12 months) and are salaried. We never have
more than one trainee at the time, and we generally make a call for applications
when we're looking for a new trainee to join us. However, you may also
send your application at any time using the instructions below. What
the FSFE offer is:

      </p>
   <ul>
        <li>
          A truly challenging and exciting time with a dynamic NGO working internationally
        </li>
        <li>
          A close-up view of organisational and community processes
        </li>
        <li>
          A chance to take the initiative and put your ideas into practice
        </li>
        <li>
          The opportunity to meet and work with Free Software advocates across Europe 
        </li>
    </ul>

    
    <h2>What you'll do:</h2>

    <ul>
        <li>
          Contribute to <a href="/work.html">FSFE's ongoing projects</a>.
        </li>
        <li>
          Work on campaigns, public relations and inside our community.
        </li>
        <li>
          Communicate with contacts from the FSFE community, NGO, industry, and public administrations.
        </li>
        <li>
          Coordinate  volunteers and FSFE team members during work on various projects.
        </li>
        <li>
          General office tasks.
        </li>
        <li>
          Find your own strengths, and do something you care about.
        </li>
    </ul>
<p>
 
</p>

<h2>Basic traineeship facts: </h2>
<ul>
        <li>Duration: 6-12 months, full-time</li>
        <li>Starting date: as agreed</li>
        <li>Location: Berlin, Germany. </li>
        <li>Remuneration: EURO 1289/month. </li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Who we're looking for:</h2>
<p> 
You're fired up about a free
information society, and you've already done something to tell others
why freedom matters? Then this traineeship is for you. Your academic
background and qualifications matter less than your experience, your
will to learn, and your ability to get things done. We expect:
</p>

    <ul>
        <li>
          Solid basic knowledge of, and considerable interest in, Free
          Software (required)
        </li>
        <li>
          Fluent English (written and spoken) is a requirement; 
          a working knowledge of German and/or other languages is an asset.
        </li>
        <li>
          Basic acquaintance with working on GNU/Linux systems (desirable)
        </li>
        <li>
         Ability to be creative, responsible, and to multitask. 
        </li>
        <li>
         Ability to integrate into a young, motivated and professional team
        </li>
        <li>
          No programming skills required. Programming is one of the
          few things you probably <i>won't</i> be doing during your
          traineeship.
        </li>
	<li>We want more women to be involved in Free Software. That's
	why we will give preference to applications from suitably
	qualified female candidates.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>When to apply:</h2>
    <p>
      We currently do not have any openings for a traineeship. The
      next opening will be for a traineeship starting in January 2017.
      To apply for this traineeship, you should send your application
      earliest the <strong>1st of October 2016</strong>.
    </p>

    <h2>How to apply:</h2>

    <p>
      Interested? Please send us an email with your letter of
      motivation, a CV and references (in English) to <a
      href="mailto:office@fsfe.org">office@fsfe.org</a>.
      Please <a
      href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/no-word-attachments.html">
      do not send any documents in Microsoft Word document
      format</a>. We won't read them. Best use PDF instead.
    </p>

    <p>
      <b>Paperwork for non-EU citizens:</b>To begin the traineeship,
      you will need a valid visa to enter Germany. You will also need
      a residence permit and a work permit. Both need to be valid for
      the full duration of your traineeship. You will also be
      responsible for your own health insurance.
    </p>
    

    <p>
      We look forward to your application!
    </p>

 
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
