<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Contribute - Information for translators</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Information for Translators</h1>

    <p>
      The FSF Europe is an international organisation. Our target is to reach
      as many people as possible and include them in our activities. To achieve
      this, we want to make our published texts available in several languages.
    </p>

    <p>
      A major part of translation effort applies to the web pages, especially
      the continuously updated pages like the
      <a href="/index.html">start page</a>, the
      <a href="/news/news.html">news page</a> or the
      <a href="/events/events.html">events page</a>.
      But not only web pages have to be translated.
      <a href="/press/press.html">Press releases</a>,
      <a href="/news/newsletter.html">newsletters</a>, brochures and other
      texts also become more wide-spread with every additional language they
      are available in.
    </p>

    <p>
      Although, depending on the author, texts are originally written in
      different languages, we generally use English as the starting point for
      further translations. Therefore, we especially need contributions in:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>translating from other languages to English,</li>
      <li>proofreading of English texts written by non-native English
        speakers, and</li>
      <li>translating from English to other languages.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Translations are generally coordinated on the translators mailing list.
      Everybody wanting to contribute to translation efforts can subscribe
      <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/translators">here</a>.
      An archive of previous messages is also
      <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/translators">available</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      Texts to be translated or proofread are sent to this list along with a
      reference to the desired languages. Whoever starts with a translation
      sends an answer to the list to avoid duplicate work. Finished
      translations are also sent to the list to allow others to proofread the
      translation and propose possible improvements.
    </p>

    <p>
      Ideally, the translation team for a specific language has several members
      that relieve and support each other, so translations to that language
      do not depend on a single person.
    </p>

    <p>
      Translating and proofreading texts is a precious contribution to the work
      of the FSF Europe and an excellent chance to spontaneously take part in
      the activities of the FSF Europe without long-term obligations.
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
