<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Our Work at the United Nations - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>United Nations</h1>

    <!--div id="introduction">
      <p>

      </p>
    </div-->

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/wipo/wipo.html">World Intellectual Property Organization</a></h3>
        <p>
          The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) is one of the 16
          specialized agencies of the United Nations system of organisations.
          Its role is administrating 23 international treaties dealing with
          different aspects of limited monopolies on knowledge. As an observer
          to WIPO and together with a global coalition of other players with
          similar goals, FSFE is working towards reshaping it as a "World
          Intellectual Wealth Organisation."
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/policy/igf/igf.html">Internet Governance Forum</a></h3>
        <p>
          The Internet Governance Forum (IGF) is a global policy discussion
          forum of the United Nations, established as an outcome of the UN World
          Summit on the Information Society (WSIS). FSFE is following the IGF to
          ensure that policy discussions will not endanger digital freedom in
          general and Free Software in particular.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <h2>Finished Projects</h2>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/activities/mankind/mankind.html">Classification of Free Software as an intangible world cultural heritage</a>
      </li>
      <li><a href="/activities/wsis/wsis.html">World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <h2><a href="/activities/wipo/wiwo.html">Towards a World Intellectual Wealth Organization</a></h2>

    <p>
      We endorse and support the Geneva Declaration, and invite its drafters,
      signatories, and the United Nations to start thinking now not only about
      what the role of WIPO should be, but rather what kind of organisation we
      need in its place.
    </p>
    
    <h2 style="clear:both">Documents and Publications</h2>
    
    <ul>
      <li><p><b><a href="/activities/policy/igf/sovsoft.en.html">Sovereign Software -
      Open Standards, Free Software, and the Internet</a></b> (2006-10-30)<br />
      Software issues are issues of power and fundamentally shape the societies
      we are living in. Even to those who had not followed digital policy issues
      before this became increasingly evident throughout the <a
      href="/activities/wsis/index.en.html">United Nations World Summit on the
      Information Society (WSIS)</a>. Two fundamental questions characterise
      this battlefield: Who controls your data? Who controls your computer?
      </p></li> 
      <li><p><b><a href="/activities/wsis/wsis-and-software.en.html">WSIS and the Software Challenge</a></b> (2005-11-15)<br /> 
      Article by <a href="/about/people/greve/index.en.html">Georg Greve</a> about the role of Free
      Software in the digital world and FSFE's involvement in the
      <a href="/activities/wsis/index.en.html">World Summit on the Information Society</a> 
      (WSIS).
    </p></li> 
    </ul>
     
  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
