<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software in Education</title>
  </head>

 <body>
<h1>Why Free Software matter in Education</h1>

<p>School and universities are the place where we teach the next generations 
the values of our societies, but also the knowledge they need to find a 
place in that society. It is also there that they learn how to use computer, 
how to interact with internet, etc....<br/>Schools should teach children to be good members of the community, and schools should not provide product training for companies that do not respect freedom.</p>
<p> Amongst <a href="/freesoftware/education/argumentation.html">other arguments for deploying Free Software in schools</a>, here are four of the key benefits:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Sharing:</strong> Using free software allows schools to
        teach children to share and cooperate.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Learning to program:</strong> The possibility/freedom to
        tinker motivates children to learn more.
      </li>

    
      <li>
        <strong>Easy to administer:</strong> Free Software is stable,
        secure and reliable.  It offers unrestricted access to the source
        code, thus allowing to modify or adapt it to the schools'
        needs.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Licenses:</strong> With Free Software, teachers can give
        a copy to each student.  There is no risk to mislead any child
        to use an illegal copy.
      </li>
    </ul>


<p>If you want to go deeper into the subject, consider the following pages&#160;:</p>
<ul><li><a href="/freesoftware/education/argumentation.html">Why school should use free software</a></li>
<li><a href="/projects/education/argumentation.html">Why give preference to free software in schools</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/education/">Gnu.org page on education</a></li>
<li>Leaflets</li></ul>

<h2>FSFE's activities</h2>
<p>If you want to learn more about FSFE's activities with regard to education, please visit our <a href="/projects/education.html">education project</a></p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-08-05 15:36:02 +0200 (Thu, 05 Aug 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
