<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Donations to the FSF Europe in the United Kingdom</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
     <h2>Donations to the FSF Europe in the United Kingdom</h2>

     <p>Due to substantial bank fees charged for international money
     transfers, small donations or standing orders are too expensive
     to be send directly to the <a
     href="donate-2002.en.html#fsfe-account">FSF Europe bank account</a>.
     To rectify this, we entered into an agreement with our UK based
     associate organisation <a href="http://www.affs.org.uk">AFFS</a>,
     to collect donations for us and transfer them in larger
     batches.</p>

     <p>Donations  from the United Kingdom may be done using one of
     these ways:</p>

     <ul>

     <li/><p>Direct bank payment<br/>Sort code: 08-92-99<br/>Bank account: 65088892<br/>
     held at:
     <address>
     Co-operative Bank<br/>
     Kings Valley<br/>
     Yew Street<br/>
     Stockport SK4 2JU<br/>
     </address>
     </p>
     <p>Yes, please include "FSFE" at the start of the description.</p>
     
     <li/><p>UK Credit and Debit Cards via Nochex:
       <form method="GET" action="https://www.nochex.com/nochex.dll/checkout">
        <input type="hidden" name="email" value="mjr@affs.org.uk"/>
        <input type="hidden" name="description" value="FSFE donation"/>
        Please enter the amount in GBP 
        <input type="text" name="amount" value="" size="3"/>
         and hit
        <input type="submit" value="Continue"/>
        (Maximum GBP100 without registering).
       </form>
       </p>

     <li/><p>Cheques: Make payable to AFFS and post to
     <address>
     Treasurer, Association For Free Software<br/>
     c/o Turo Technology LLP<br/>
     79 Sir Lewis Street<br/>
     King's Lynn, PE30 2AL.<br/>
     </address>
     </p>
     <p>Clearly indicate on the back "FSFE".</p>

     <li/><p>Cash: at fairs and shows.</p>
     </ul>

     <div><font size="-1"><p>To donate from other countries please see
     the <a href="donate-2002.en.html">main donation
     page</a></p></font></div>

     <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe wants to acknowledge its
     supporters and contributors in a visible fashion. Therefore we
     would like to ask you to send mail to <code><a
     href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">&lt;office@fsfeurope.org&gt;</a></code>
     and let us know where to send a thank-you letter. Also we'd like
     to list you on our "<a href="thankgnus.html">Thank GNUs</a>"
     page. Even if you prefer to remain anonymous, please let us know
     how to reach you, so we can thank you privately.</p>

     <p>If you are interested in announcing your contribution
     publicly, the FSF Europe also provides some <a
     href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.en.html">sponsoring
     buttons</a> for its donors.</p>

     <p>The FSF Europe thanks all <a
      href="thankgnus.html">donors</a>. Your contribution allows us to
      work.  Special thanks to the AFFS for handling the donations
      in the UK.</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
