<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Donations to the FSF Europe</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
        <a href="donate.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
	English |
        <a href="donate.it.html">Italiano</a>
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
     <h2>Donations to the FSF Europe</h2>

     <p>There are many ways for people to support the <a
     href="../documents/whatwedo.html">work</a> and <a
     href="../documents/whyweexist.html">goals</a> of the FSF
     Europe. The most direct one is to help us as a volunteer by
     writing free software or free documentation. We also need people to help us
     with other tasks like manning tradeshow booths and such. If you
     are interested, you can take a look at the &quot;<a
     href="help.html">What needs to be done?</a>&quot; page.</p>

     <p>Another way to help the FSF Europe is to donate money that we
     will use to cover our expenses and pay people to work on and for
     Free Software.</p>

     <p>The FSF Europe is a Europe-wide organization with a hub in
     Germany and the goal to have chapters in every European
     country. Wherever possible, donations to the FSF Europe will be
     made tax-deductible by registering the FSF Europe as a charitable
     organization according to local laws.</p>

     <h3>Become a supporter of the FSF Europe</h3>

     <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe wants to acknowledge its
     supporters and contributors in a visible fashion. Therefore we
     would like to ask you to send mail to &lt;<code><a
     href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">office@fsfeurope.org</a></code>&gt;
     and let us know where to send the receipt and thank-you
     letter. Also we'd like to list you on our "<a
     href="thankgnus.html">Thank GNUs</a>" page.
     </p>

     <p>If you donate in a year:
     <ul>
      <li> EUR 100, you'll become a <b>Supporter</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
      <li> EUR 500, you'll become a <b>Contributor</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
      <li> EUR 1000, you'll become a <b>Sustaining Contributor</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
      <li> EUR 5000, you'll become a <b>Patron</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
     </ul></p>

     <h3>How to donate</h3>

     <p>The FSF Europe is still growing and your country may not yet
     have a chapter of the FSF Europe. In this case you can donate
     directly to the hub (see information below) or contact <a
     href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">our office</a> on information
     how to donate in a convenient way.</p>

     <p>If you live outside Europe, you should also consider donating
     to our sister organization in the United States, the <a
     href="http://www.gnu.org/help/donate.html">Free Software
     Foundation</a>, instead.</p>

     <p>Approval by the authorities usually takes some time. So it may
     be possible that although there is a chapter in your country
     already, donations may not yet be tax-deductable. Whether you can
     donate trusting in the charitable status to be confirmed later or
     whether you'll have to wait depends on local laws.</p>

     <p><b>Please understand that we cannot guarantee tax-deductability
     in those cases.</b></p>

     <p>Donations can be transferred directly to one of the following
     bank accounts:</p>

     <ul>
     <li><p><b>Germany</b>
     <em>[charitable status not yet confirmed]</em></p>
     <ul><code>
      FSF Europe - Chapter Germany e.V.<br/>
      Account No: 3004724<br/>
      National-Bank Essen<br/>
      BLZ: 36020030<br/>
     </code></ul></li>

     <li><p><b>Europe</b>
     <em>[charitable status in Germany]</em></p>
     <ul><code>
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
      Account No: 3004732<br/>
      National-Bank Essen, Germany<br/>
      SWIFT-No: NBAG DE 3E<br/>
     </code></ul></li>
     </ul>

     <p>If you prefer to mail a check instead, you can send it to <br/>
     <ul><ul><address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Villa Vogelsang<br/>
      Antonienallee 1<br/>
      45279 Essen<br/>
      Germany<br/>
     </address></ul></ul></p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
