<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Donations to the FSF Europe</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
     <h2>Donations to the FSF Europe</h2>

     <p>There are many ways for people to support the <a
     href="../documents/whatwedo.html">work</a> and <a
     href="../documents/whyweexist.html">goals</a> of the FSF
     Europe. The most direct one is to help us as a volunteer by
     writing free software or free documentation. We also need people to help us
     with other tasks like manning tradeshow booths and such. If you
     are interested, you can take a look at the &quot;<a
     href="help.html">What needs to be done?</a>&quot; page.</p>

     <p>Another crucial way of supporting the FSF Europe is by
     donating money that will allow us to cover our expenses and pay
     people to work on and for Free Software.</p>

     <p>The FSF Europe is a Europe-wide organization that seeks
     official recognition by local authorities as a charity whenever
     possible. Depending on local laws, this may allow deducing your
     donation from taxes. Please refer to the list below for
     details.</p>

     <h3>Become a patron of the FSF Europe</h3>

     <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe wants to acknowledge its
     supporters and contributors in a visible fashion. Therefore we
     would like to ask you to send mail to <code><a
     href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">&lt;office@fsfeurope.org&gt;</a></code>
     and let us know where to send the receipt and thank-you
     letter. Also we'd like to list you on our "<a
     href="thankgnus.html">Thank GNUs</a>" page. Even if you prefer to
     remain anonymous, please let us know how to reach you, so we can
     thank you privately.
     </p>

     <p>If you donate:
     <ul>
      <li>EUR 10 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 120 in a year, you'll become a
      <b>Supporter</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
      <li>EUR 50 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 600 in a year, you'll
      become a <b>Contributor</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
      <li>EUR 100 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 1200 in a year, you'll
      become a <b>Sustaining Contributor</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
      <li>EUR 500 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 6000 in a year, you'll
      become a <b>Patron</b> of the FSF Europe.</li>
     </ul></p>

     <p>Monthly donors starting late in the year will get a
     &quot;(mm/yy-)&quot; suffixed to their listing, monthly donors
     stopping early in the year get a &quot;(-mm/yy).&quot;
     Late-starting, early-stopping donors are suffixed with a
     &quot;(mm/yy-mm/yy).&quot;</p>

     <h3>How to donate</h3>

     <p>The FSF Europe is still growing and there may not yet be a
     local bank account that is capable of accepting tax-deductable
     donations even if your local laws allow for them. In this case
     you can donate to the central bank account (see below) or contact
     <a href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">our office</a> for
     information on how to donate in the most convenient way.</p>

     <p><b>Please understand that tax-deductability is only possible
     when stated explicitly below.</b></p>

     <p>If you live outside Europe, you might also consider donating
     to our sister organizations, the Free Software Foundations in the
     <a href="http://www.gnu.org/help/donate.html">United States</a>
     or in <a href="http://fsf.org.in">India</a>.</p>

     <p>Donations can be transferred directly to one of the following
     bank accounts:</p>

     <ul>
     <li><p><b>Germany</b><br />
     <b>[tax-deductable receipts available for Germany]</b></p>
     <ul><code>
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
      Account No: 3004732<br/>
      National-Bank Essen, Germany<br/>
      BLZ: 36020030<br />
      (SWIFT-No: NBAG DE 3E)<br/>
     </code></ul>
     <!--
     <ul><code>
      FSF Europe - Chapter Germany e.V.<br/>
      Account No: 3004724<br/>
      National-Bank Essen<br/>
      BLZ: 36020030<br/>
     </code></ul> -->
     </li>

     <li><p><b>All other countries:</b></p>
     <ul><code>
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
      Account No: 3004732<br/>
      National-Bank Essen, Germany<br/>
      SWIFT-No: NBAG DE 3E<br/>
     </code></ul>
     </li></ul>

     <p>If you prefer to mail a check instead, you can send it to <br/>
     <ul><ul><address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
      Villa Vogelsang<br/>
      Antonienallee 1<br/>
      45279 Essen<br/>
      Germany<br/>
     </address></ul></ul></p>

   <p>The FSF Europe thanks all <a
   href="thankgnus.html">donors</a>. Your contribution allows us to
   work.</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
