<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Hardware Donations</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <h2>Hardware Donations</h2>

    <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe would like to thank all donors of
        equipment for their support -- hardware is an essential
        necessity for our work. We would in particular like to thank:</p>

    <ul>
		
	<li><em>2007-03-21</em>: <b>Sun Microsystems</b> <br /> For the donation
		of one Sun Fire T1000 server (8 4-core CPUs, 16GB RAM, 2x73GB harddisks). FSFE is running
		Fellowship and e-mail services on it.</li>


	<li><em>2006-05-20</em>: <b>Department of Informatics, Göteborg University, Sweden</b> <br />

            For the donation of one Dual Pentium III 1GHz machine with
	    2GB RAM and one IBM EXT300 disk cabinet with 14*18 GB disk.</li>

        <li><em>2005-12-27</em>: <b>SAMSUNG Electronics Germany</b> <br />

            For the donation of six SAMSUNG X20 XVM 1730 V notebooks
            that are being put to good use by FSFE's crew in Hamburg,
            Gothenburg, Milano, Brussels, Frankfurt and Vienna; as well as
            the donation of one SAMSUNG Digimax V700 Digital Camera.</li>


        <li><em>2005-01-17</em>: <b>Hewlett-Packard Germany</b> <br />

            For the donation of two Compaq N2400 servers 
            (Dual CPU, Pentium III 1GHz with 1GB RAM each).
            The machines have replaced our 
            quite outdated web- and mailserver machines and
            are running core services of the Free Software
         Foundation Europe.</li>

	<li><em>2003-01-24</em>: <b>Department of Informatics, Göteborg University, Sweden</b> <br />

	    For the donation of one Andataco disk cabinet with 3*18 and
	    5*9 GB disk, one
	    Single Pentium III 600MHz machine, one Single Pentium III
	    450 MHz machine and one Dual Pentium II 450 MHz machine.</li>


    <br /><small>(list sorted by date, newest entry on top)</small>
    </ul>


    <h3>What we need</h3>

    <p>While you can always support our activities
       <a href="/help/donate.html">financially</a> and by <a href="/help/help.html">getting
       active</a> yourself, we also have need
       for specific hardware for our activities.</p>

    <p>In particular, we are currently looking for</p>

    <ul>

 <li> backup hardware; more specifically tape autochanger hardware,
    preferrably DLT. We also need tapes.</li>

 <li>more servers (standard rack mountable 1/2U).</li>

 <li>fiber channel storage capacities for shared disks among the servers.</li>

 <li>remote control devices (power on/off, remote consoles etc)</li>

 <li>19'' 14 HU rack, plus 19'' UPS and a 19'' switch/router.<br />
    (we want to move to a setup where we have one thing that is
    entirely under our control so there won't be any other SysAds
    involved in the administration/maintenance of the hardware)</li>

    </ul>

    <p>If you have other hardware that you consider donating and would
       like to know whether we have use for it, please contact <a
            href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">office@fsfeurope.org</a>.</p>  

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
