<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - How can you get involved?</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h2>How can you get involved?</h2>

<p>The most direct way to support the <a
href="../documents/whatwedo.html">work</a> and <a
href="../documents/whyweexist.html">goals</a> of the FSF Europe is
through volunteering for things that need to be done. We are extremely
glad about the help we have received from the community so far and
welcome every new contributor.</p>

<p>If you haven't done so already, we suggest that you subscribe to
the FSF Europe 
<a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo">mailing lists</a> 
you're
interested in and take a look at the archives to see what has been
discussed already. 
</p>

<p>If you feel you can and want to help with one or the other task,
a mail to an appropriate mailing list is a good way of getting
involved. If you do not find a good list to use you can
also send emails to the international <a href="mailto:team@fsfeurope.org">
<code>team@fsfeurope.org</code></a>. 
</p>

<p>More specific tasks that we need help with:</p>

<h3>Fellowship</h3>

<p class="indent">The easiest and most straightforward way of becoming
involved with the Free Software Foundation Europe is to join the
<a href="https://www.fsfe.org/">Fellowship of FSFE</a>.</p>

<p class="indent">As Fellow, you add your visible support and
contribution to all activities of the FSFE, are in touch with other
likeminded people, meet up with them to celebrate "Freedom Parties"
and your personalised <a href="https://www.fsfe.org/card/">Fellowship
Crypto-SmartCard</a> can be worn as visible sign of the tech-savvy
person that is actively contributing to freedom in the digital age.</p>


<h3>Web pages</h3>

<p class="indent">Web pages are a constant bottleneck. Keeping them up to date and
available in as many languages as possible requires permanent
attention. At the same time it is one of the most efficient ways of
informing about Free Software, issues of digital society and the work
of the FSF Europe.</p>

<p class="indent">Giving a hand is possible and very much appreciated on both an
irregular as well as regular basis. Please find more information and
quick-start instructions <a href="/help/web.html">here</a>.</p>


<h3>Translations</h3>

<p class="indent">A central issue always in need of translations is the web page,
which you can find some <a href="/help/web.html">dedicated
information</a> for.</p>

<p class="indent">But the web page is not the only thing in need of translation and
proofreading. Press releases, brochures and leaflets can also reach
more people when translated.</p>

<p class="indent">Translating and proofreading texts is a precious contribution to the work
of the FSF Europe and an excellent chance to spontaneously take part in
the activities of the FSF Europe without long-term obligations. We have a
separate page with <a href="/contribute/translators.html">information for
translators</a>.</p>


<h3>Tradeshow booths</h3>

<p class="indent">The FSF Europe has to get in touch with people outside the
community to make them realise there is more to Free Software than
just nice programs and to familiarise them with the FSF.</p>

<p class="indent">An important part of this is being present at tradeshows. But
although we can normally provide everything needed to set up such a
booth, there is one thing we cannot simply generate: people.</p>

<p class="indent">We need volunteers to be present at the booths, talk to people,
explain to them the philosophy of Free Software and what the FSF and
GNU Project are all about and simply be there. Nothing looks worse
than an empty tradeshow booth. Also we prefer to have local volunteers
take over organisation of the booths.</p>

<p class="indent">Organisation of the tradeshow appearances usually
happens over the language localised list or on the
<a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/booth"
>booth coordination list</a>.
</p>


<h3>Internships</h3>

<p class="indent">The Free Software Foundation Europe operates in a
very mixed environment of volunteers from many countries and several
full-time employees, among with it is also possible to hold
internships.</p>

<p class="indent">So if you have a couple of months to spend on
something that is both useful and fun and consider this as an option
for yourself, check out our <a href="/contribute/internship.html">Join
the revolution: Interships at FSFE</a> page for more information.</p>


<h3>Donations</h3> 


<p class="indent">Another way to support the work of the FSF Europe is through
donations. As with any other organisation, the effectiveness of the
FSF Europe depends on its financial resources. Paying people to work
on and for Free Software, printing brochures, mailing journalists and
politicians, providing infrastructure for projects and much more
depends on this. If you feel you can contribute to our work
financially, you will find information on how to do so on our <a
href="donate.html">donations</a> page.</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
