<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - What needs to be done?</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
        <a href="help.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
	English
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
      <h2>What needs to be done?</h2>

<p>The most direct way to support the <a
href="../documents/whatwedo.html">work</a> and <a
href="../documents/whyweexist.html">goals</a> of the FSF Europe is
through volunteering for things that need to be done. We are extremely
glad about the help we have received from the community so far and
welcome every new contributor.</p>

<p>If you haven't done so already, we suggest that you subscribe to
the FSF Europe <a href="../mailinglists.html">mailing lists</a> you're
interested in and take a look at the archives to see what has been
discussed already.</p>

<p>There are also several concrete tasks that we need help with:</p>

<h3>Web pages</h3>

<ul>

<p>Building, maintaining and translating the FSF Europe web pages is a
lot of work. Getting our work and results published is a permanent
bottleneck and help with this is very likely to immediately increase
the impact of the FSF Europe as the web page is one of the most
visible parts of our work.</p>

<p>You can export the pages to your own computer and modify them to
improve or add what you have in mind. See the page <code><a
href="https://savannah.gnu.org/cvs/?group_id=53">https://savannah.gnu.org/cvs/?group_id=53</a></code>
for technical details. When you've modified the pages, generate a
patch and upload it at <code><a
href="https://savannah.gnu.org/patch/?group_id=53">https://savannah.gnu.org/patch/?group_id=53</a></code>. It
will be reviewed and shortly integrated if we agree that it is a
useful addition. </p>

<p>If you plan to contribute on a regular basis we can provide you
with a protected access that allows you to modify the pages by
yourself.</p>

</ul>

<h3>Translations</h3>

<ul>

<p>Not only the web pages need translations. Also other texts,
brochures and much more needs translation and proofreading. Help with
this is greatly appreciated.</p>

</ul>

<h3>Tradeshow booths</h3>

<ul>

<p>The FSF Europe get in touch with people outside the community to
make them realize there is more to Free Software than just nice
programs and get familiar with the FSF.</p>

<p>An important part of this is being present at tradeshows. But
although we can normally provide everything needed to set up such a
booth, there is one thing we cannot simply generate: people.</p>

<p>We need volunteers to be present at the booths, talk to people,
explain to them the philosophy of Free Software and what the FSF and
GNU Project are all about and simply be there. Nothing looks worse
than an empty tradeshow booth. Also we prefer to have local volunteers
take over organization of the booths.</p>

<p>If you feel you can and want to help with one or the other task,
a mail to the <a href="../mailinglists.html">mailing lists</a> or
<code><a
href="mailto:team@fsfeurope.org">team@fsfeurope.org</a></code> is a
good way of getting involved.</p>

</ul>

<h3>Various public tasks</h3>

<ul>

<p>You can follow some of the current tasks of the FSF Europe at the
URL <code><a
href="https://savannah.gnu.org/pm/?group_id=53">https://savannah.gnu.org/pm/?group_id=53</a></code>.
Don't hesitate to suggest new subjects. If you want to be actively
involved in the task management, we can grant you the necessary rights
to do so.</p>

</ul>

<h3>Donations</h3> 

<ul>

<p>Another way to support the work of the FSF Europe is through
donations. As with any other organization, the effectiveness of the
FSF Europe depends on its financial resources. Paying people to work
on and for Free Software, printing brochures, mailing journalists and
politicians, providing infrastructure for projects and much more
requires money. If you feel you can contribute to our work
financially, please take a look at our <a
href="donations.html">donations</a> page.</p>

</ul>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
