<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - How to help with the web page</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->
<h2>How to help with the web page</h2>

<p>This page seeks to give some overview, introductory and reference
information for the new or occasional web page volunteer.</p>

<h3>Introduction</h3>

<p>The technologies and programs used to maintain the FSF Europe web
page should already be familiar to many developers and authors and
might be of interest to those that have not yet discovered them.</p>

<p>Translators and occasional volunteers will most likely only get
in touch with
<ul>
<li><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org" target="_blank">Savannah</a> --
for CVS (see below) services and access permission management
</li>
<li><a href="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/" target="_blank">XHTML</a> --
from which the static pages are generated about every 2 hours</li>
<li><a href="http://www.cvshome.org" target="_blank">Concurrent
Version System (CVS)</a> -- for coordination and synchronization</li>
</ul></p>

<p>Volunteers interested in getting deeper into the maintenance should
also be familiar with
<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.perl.org" target="_blank">Perl</a> -- for the
maintenance and page creation scripts</li>
<li><a href="http://www.apache.org" target="_blank">Apache</a> -- as
the web server</li>
</ul></p>

<h3>First steps</h3>

<p>The first thing you should do is get yourself a <a
href="http://savannah.gnu.org" target="_blank">Savannah</a> account in
case you haven't done so already. Let one of the <a
href="https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/fsfe/" target="_blank">FSF
Europe savannah project admins</a> know your login and ask them to
please add you to the FSF Europe project on Savannah.</p>

<p>Also, you may want to consider subscribing to the <a
href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web"
target="_blank">web@fsfeurope.org</a> mailing list, which is used for
web site coordination.</p>

<p>Once you have been added to the FSF Europe page, please follow the
<a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/cvs/?group=fsfe"
target="_blank">instructions on savannah</a> to retrieve the file(s)
you are interested in working on.</p>

<p>Now you can start working after reading the next section.</p>

<h3>Important</h3>

<p>Given that the FSF Europe web page has a European/global level and
user-chosen local levels that supplement them for information that is
country-specific, the layout has a certain complexity that is hidden
entirely from the user of the page.</p>

<p><b>[DOCUMENTATION]</b> Unless you only wish to translate pages (see
below), <b>please make sure you have taken a look at the <a
href="/help/webpage/Webpage-Structure.txt" target="_blank">structural
reference</a>.</b></p>

<p><b>[DOCUMENTATION]</b> Also, there is a <a
href="http://www.texinfo.org" target="_blank">Texinfo</a>
documentation file "<a href="/README.texi"
target="_blank">Webmastering FSF Europe</a>" by <a
href="mailto:oberg@fsfeurope.org">Jonas Öberg</a>, who implemented the
build system for the page. Please read it to know more about how the
web page works.</p>

<h3>Quick Reference for Translators / Some general rules</h3>

<p>These easy rules should keep you out of trouble and save you from
frustration while making it easy to create translations.
<ul>
<li><b>Never edit the HTML files directly, edit the XHTML sources
instead!</b></li><br />
<li><b>If you commit pages with broken XHTML code, it will break the
build process until somebody fixes the mistake. So never commit files
to CVS without having them checked for valid XHTML syntax!</b> The web
CVS contains a script "validate.pl" in the tools directory, which is
supplied for that particular purpose.</li><br />
<li>Page names follow the syntax: "&lt;name&gt;.&lt;language&gt;.xhtml" with
&lt;language&gt; being the two-letter country code for the language. If
there is no country/language code, the page is assumed to be in
English. <br />(<em>Example: The build system will assume that
test.it.xhtml is the Italian translation of the French page
test.fr.xhtml.</em>)</li><br />
<li>Do not translate links within the FSF Europe web page. If there is
a link to another pagex.html on the FSF Europe web page, do <b>not
include a language part</b>, it will be automatically added by the
build script!</li><br />
<li>If you want to create the French translation of the Italian page
x.it.xhtml, all you need to do is to copy it to x.fr.xhtml, translate
it and check it in. On the next build, this will be accepted as the
translation and put into the navigation structure accordingly.</li>
<li>Some of the files for auto-generated menus are in XML format
instead of XHTML. What was said about the XHTML pages is also applies
for these. </li><br />
</ul></p>

<h3>More Questions?</h3>

<p>If you have further questions, please ask them on <a
href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/web">web@fsfeurope.org</a>
or get in touch with the current web page coordinator, <a
href="mailto:oberg@fsfeurope.org">Jonas Öberg</a>.</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
