<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software in the Education - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<p id="category"><a href="/projects/work.html">Our work</a></p>
<h1>Free Software in Education</h1>

<p id="introduction"> 
  We actively promote the use of Free Software in schools and universities as
  it encourages schooling of understanding over product training and upholds
  the scientific principle.  
</p>

<p>
  We have set up an <a href="www.fsfe.org/projects/education/eduteam.en.html">Education Task Force</a> to focus on these efforts. It acts as
  a hub and works on monitoring the European situation. We participate in Free
  Software events and assist other initiatives in making the change possible. 
</p>

<p>
  The team currently develops a guide how to successfully deploy Free Software
  in schools and universities. Amongst other arguments here are four of the key
  benefits:
</p>

<ul>

  <li>Sharing: Using free software allows schools to teach children to share
  and cooperate.</li>

  <li>Learning to program: The possibility/freedom to tinker motivates children
  to learn more.</li> 
    
  <li>Easy to administer: Free Software is stable, secure and reliable. It
  offers unrestricted access to the source code, thus allowing to modify or
  adapt it to the schools' needs.</li>

  <li>Licenses: With Free Software, teachers can give a copy to each student.
  There is no risk to mislead any child to use an illegal copy.</li>

</ul>

    <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/freesoftware/education/argumentation.en.html">Detailed argumentation</a></h3>
        <p>
          More reasons for schools to <a href="/freesoftware/education/argumentation.html">use Free Software</a> and to <a href="/projects/education/argumentation.html">give precedence to free software at schools</a>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/edu-eu">Education mailing list</a></h3>
        <p>
          Join the discussion about Free Software in education.
        </p>
      </li>
<li>    <h3><a href="/projects/education/eduteam.html">Who we are</a></h3>
<p>
Get involved in the Educational Task Force.</p></li>
      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://www.gnu.org/education">GNU's education page</a></h3>
        <p>
          The <a href="/about/basics/gnuproject.html">GNU project</a> also maintains a info page on Free Software in education. 
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
