<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Education</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/projects/education/eduteam.html">Education Task Force</a>

    <h1>Reasons for schools to use Free Software</h1>

    <p class="background">
  Access to software determines who may participate in a digital
  society. The freedoms to use, study, share, and improve software allow
  equal  participation, and are extremely important. There are many
  reasons to use Free Software in general. Here, we collected some that
  are particularly important for schools:

   </p>

    <h2>Sharing</h2>

    <p>Using Free Software allows schools to teach children to share and cooperate 
and thus join a whole community that shares knowledge.
    </p>

    <h2>Equality at home</h2>

    <p>
     With free software, teachers can give a copy to each student. Thus children 
of families with less financial resources can learn with the same tools as every 
other child.
    </p> 

    <h2>Learning to program</h2>

    <p>
      The possibility to tinker motivates children to learn more. Free software 
allows to learn about computer to any depth. 
    </p>

    <h2>Learning to use software</h2>

    <p>
     Free Software permits children to learn how software works and thus 
to understand the concepts underlying a whole category or type of software. 
They are then able to adapt to any environment, a key skill nowadays.
    </p>

    <h2>Learning in native language</h2>

    <p>Free Software applications are being translated into almost any language. 
Thus each child can learn and focus on the actual subject without any language or 
cultural barriers.
    </p>

    <h2>Independence</h2>

    <p>Teaching children to rely on proprietary software makes them dependent on 
something they will have to pay for. Teaching them to rely on Free Software, the 
children can continue using this software in their adult life while helping others 
by sharing it. Using and teaching Free Software also makes the school itself 
independent from any commercial interests.
    </p>

    <h2>Slash your hardware costs</h2>

    <p>
     Free Software can be used with minimal hardware requirements on almost any 
hardware. Thus, it saves money again.
    </p>

  <h2>Forget your licenses costs</h2>

    <p>
     Without licence fees, the school saves money and can use it to train the 
teachers or for technical support to disburden the teachers.
    </p>

  <h2>Don't worry about your licenses</h2>

    <p>
    With Free Software, there are no worries about expiry dates or costs of the 
licenses. Free Software stays free in every sense. There is no risk to mislead 
any child to use an illegal copy.
    </p>

    <h2>Administer easily</h2>

<p>Free Software is stable, secure and reliable. Security and other updates can 
be implemented in a minute. Its maintenance is automated and thus time-saving.</p>


    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstrasse 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: edu-team@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/projects/education/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-07-17 07:20:49 +0200 (Sat, 17 Jul 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
