<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Education</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="projects/education/eduteam.en.html">Education Task Force</a>

    <h1>Reasons to advocate for Free Software in your university</h1>

    <p class="background">
    With Free Software, you have the choice. You are not stuck in one single 
distribution because you only know how to use this particular one, because 
if you change, the format of your documents will not be compatible with 
the new version, or because you have paid a license that holds you from 
modifying the software you are working on.
    </p>

    <h2>Free Software improves your education</h2>
<p>-------------------------------------------------------</p>
  <h2>Acquiring displayable skills </h2>

  <p>
     Nowadays, it is not enough to know how to use a certain office program. 
It's important to understand the concepts underlying a whole category or 
type of software not merely how to use a particular application. Free 
Software permits you to learn how software works and thus to adapt
to any environment, a key skill nowadays.
    </p>

  <h2>Being independent</h2>

  <p>If you are taught to rely on proprietary software, you are made dependent 
on something you'll have to pay for. If you are taught to rely on Free 
Software, you can continue using this software in your adult life while 
helping others by sharing it.
    </p>

    <h2>Learning in native language</h2>

    <p>Free Software applications are being translated into almost any language. 
Thus you can learn and focus on the actual subject without any language or 
cultural barriers.
    </p>

<h2>Using Free Software is the logical economic decision</h2>
<p>-------------------------------------------------------</p>
  <h2>Keep your university neutral</h2>

<p>Universities have to stay away from consumerism. Universities' needs, 
and the means they require, have to keep clear from fashion or software 
industry advertising.</p>

  <h2>Spend money on grey matter</h2>

<p>In Education, means are more limited than in other sectors, because 
they have to be employed on a large scale. It's more relevant to pay grey 
matter (e.g. help for projects conception, personal and educational training) 
than to pay proprietary licences. </p>

  <h2>Be ecologically responsible</h2>

   <p>
     Free Software can be used with minimal hardware requirements on almost any 
hardware. Free Software gives increased perennity to hardware as it allows 
a longer use of old (and cheap) hardware. Updates can be immediatly developed
 and shared with other users worldwide. You don't need to buy the last 
release of the producer.
    </p>

   <h2>Free Software contribute to building a free society</h2>
<p>-------------------------------------------------------</p>
  <h2>Solidarity</h2>
 <p>Using Free Software allows you to share and cooperate 
and thus join a whole community that shares knowledge.
    </p>

  <h2>Liberty</h2>

<p>Free Software is about freedom, not price. With Free Software, you have 
the control over the software you use. You can use, study, share and improve it.</p>

  <h2>Equality</h2>

  <p>
     With free software, teachers can give a copy to each student. Thus children of families with less financial resources can learn with the same tools as every other child
    </p> 


    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstrasse 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: edu-team@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/projects/education<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-07-17 07:20:49 +0200 (Sat, 17 Jul 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
