<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2010-11-03">
  <head>
    <title>End non-free advertisement: stamp out the ads!</title>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="/scripts/flattr.js"/>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>End non-free advertisement: stamp out the ads!</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes"><a class="FlattrButton" style="display:none;" rev="flattr;button:compact;"
href="http://pdfreaders.org/"></a> 
One month, one campaign, one goal: getting rid of non-free
software advertisements on public websites. In four weeks, FSFE received
reports concerning <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">2162 European institutions who
  advertise non-free PDF readers</a>. Apart from the 305 activists who
participated to the search, 1500 individuals, 46 businesses and 38
organisations signed our <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">Petition
  For The Removal Of Proprietary Software Advertising On Public Websites</a>.
Now that the hunt is over, it's time to chase up those websites which encourage
visitors to jeopardise their freedom.  It's time to stamp out the ads!</p>

<p>Highly motivated volunteers searched the internet for public websites that
advertise non-free software and reported <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">2162 institutions</a>. Some of
them, like Massimo Barbieri and Lucas Bickel individually reported more than
350! Alessandro Albini, Rainer Schmitz, and Pavel Kharitonov
also made a remarkable contribution in reporting around 50 institutions
each.</p>

<p>But the FSFE won't stop with a list of institutions. In the coming weeks,
FSFE will <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">send
  letters to the institutions</a> to draw their attention to their unfair
advertising. In the name of the signatories of the <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">petition</a>, FSFE will ask the
institutions to either remove any recommendation for non-free software from
their website, or give a choice of several programs.</p>

<p>Wherever you are, whatever time you have, you can contribute to the removal
of non-free software adverts on public websites. The amazing work of the ads
hunters and our <a
  href="/contribute/translators/translators.html">translators</a> has laid a
firm foundation for the next phase. Now it is up to you to enable us to get
things done. You can make a difference! Help us to <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">translate the letter into missing
  languages</a> or <a href="/donate/donate.html">donate to the PDF readers
  campaign fund</a> to help cover the 1600 EUR for postage and the extra costs
of administration to deliver the messages throughout Europe. Help us stamp out
the ads!</p>

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
