<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2010-03-24">
  <head>
    <title>Radio stations granted awards for using Open Standards</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Radio stations granted awards for using Open Standards</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Berlin/Vienna March 24. The Free Software Foundation Europe
awarded Deutschlandradio and Radio Orange with the Document Freedom Day 2010 Prize
for using Open Standards and promoting them in society. FSFE's German
team together with the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure 
(FFII) will present the DFD cake displaying "rOGG on!" in Berlin
and Cologne to Deutschlandradio.  The Austrian DFD cake goes to the
Vienna-based station Radio Orange 94.0.</p>

<p>Deutschlandradio and Radio Orange provide live streams of their programmes in
OGG Vorbis format. Open Standards like OGG Vorbis enable data transfers between
software of different vendors.  By allowing
data to be transmitted independent of any particular software vendor, they leave
users free to use different types of hardware or software.</p>

<p>The Xiph.org foundation designed the OGG Vorbis format as a patent-free alternative to
MP3 for compressing audio files. In contrast to proprietary formats, Open
Standards can be easily used with Free Software. This makes Open Standards
indispensable to the media, administration, companies, organisations, and
PC users.</p>

<p>FSFE is pleased that both radio stations set standards for the freedom of
their listeners by using Open Standards.</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.dradio.de/presse/pressemitteilungen/1148330/">Deutschlandradio press release</a></li>
  <li>Deutschlandradio received their awards on March 31st at 3:00pm simultaneously in Berlin and Cologne:</li>
  <ul>
    <li>Deutschlandradio Kultur, Hans-Rosenthal-Platz, 10825 Berlin</li>
    <li>Deutschlandfunk, Raderberggürtel 40, 50968 Köln</li>
  </ul>
  <li>Radio Orange 94.0 is to receive their award on March 31st at 5:30pm in Vienna:</li>
  <ul>
    <li>Radio Orange, Klosterneuburger Str. 1, A-1200 Vienna</li>
  </ul>
  <li><a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/DFD-2010-BCV">press pictures of the awards (avaiable from 31 March 6:30 pm onwards)</a></li>
  <li>For more information about the use of OGG Vorbis see the <a href="http://www.fsf.org/resources/formats/playogg/de">PlayOgg website of our sister organisation</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Document Freedom Day</h2>

<p><a href="http://www.documentfreedom.org/">Document Freedom Day (DFD)</a>
is a global day for document liberation and Open Standards. Since 2008, it
is celebrated annually on the last Wednesday of March. Over the past years, more than
200 teams of volunteers in over 60 countries have been imparting the value of Open
Document Formats and Open Standards to others.</p>

  </body>
<translator>Andreas Aubele</translator>
  <tags>
    <tag>de</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
