<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2010-05-10">
  <head>
    <title>Free Software Foundation Europe receives Theodor Heuss Medal</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Free Software Foundation Europe receives Theodor Heuss Medal</h1>
    
    <h2>“Acting responsibly for a just and fair digital world”</h2>
    
    <p newsteaser="yes">
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) on Saturday received the <a
      href="http://www.theodor-heuss-stiftung.de">Theodor Heuss Medal</a> in
      recognition of its work for freedom in the information society. The medal
      is awarded once a year in Stuttgart by a non-partisan foundation named for
      West Germany's first president. 
    </p>

    <p>
      "We will not gain our freedom in the information society without effort,"
      says Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's President. "Software is a central tool of our
      society. We need to make sure that we ourselves control this tool, so we
      are able to adapt it to our needs." 
    </p>

    <p>
      Ludwig Theodor Heuss, chairman of the Heuss Foundation, highlighted the
      fact that software is a cultural technique. "Free Software Foundation
      Europe is making a highly competent contribution to the effort of building
      a new framework for digital freedom using Free Software." 
    </p>

    <p>
      Since its founding in 2001, FSFE works to put the control of software into
      the hands of everyone. "This award for us is a very special recognition of
      our work, and a great encouragement to push even harder for the interests
      of users and developers," says Gerloff. "For this, we will need <a
      href="http://fsfe.org/contribute">a lot of support from many
      individuals</a>." 
    </p>

    <p>
      During the ceremony in Stuttgart a wide range of prominent figures from
      politics and business were present. Among them were the former German
      president Richard von Weizsäcker and Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger,
      the minister of justice. In his award speech, Ludwig Heuss referred to
      organisations like FSFE as "the yeast in society's dough". 
    </p>  

  </body>
<translator> </translator>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


