<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2010-07-19">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE Welcomes New ‘Software Interactions’ Document from the
      European Legal Network</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>FSFE Welcomes New ‘Software Interactions’ Document from the
      European Legal Network</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">
      FSFE is proud to welcome the release of a new educational document
      on Free Software licensing.  Developed by delegates of the European
      Legal Network, the document helps software developers and lawyers
      by making it easier to decide under which licenses they can
      distribute their work.
    </p>

    <p>
      ‘Software Interactions’ explains in detail when a program that
      contains source code under the GNU General Public License or other
      Free Software licenses needs to be distributed under the same
      license, and when developers can select another license.  It
      includes examples of potential legal or community red lines in the
      field.
    </p>

    <p>
      Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's President, says: “While no document can
      provide definitive answers for such a complex subject, today's
      release is a unique collaborative effort shaped over more than a
      year of debate by numerous experts.  It represents the first time
      that linking has been discussed so broadly.”
    </p>

    <p>
      FSFE is taking the opportunity of this release to establish a
      long-term home for network educational documents on the FSFE
      Fellowship wiki.  <a
        href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/EuropeanLegalNetwork">This page</a>
      will expand to include all of the current and future documents
      released by the network, and is intended to provide a simple way
      for people to locate and share this material.
    </p>

    <p>
      ‘Software Interactions’ is the second collaborative legal
      knowledge released by the European Legal Network.  The first was
      the Risk Grid, published in July 2009 in the <em>International
      Free and Open Source Software Law Review</em>.
    </p>

    <p>
      FSFE has facilitated the European Legal Network since 2007. From
      humble beginnings the network has now grown to contain over 240
      members from 27 countries and four continents, and is the largest
      professional legal forum for Free Software in the world.  While
      FSFE does not have editorial control over network discussions and
      educational documents, we believe it provides great value to the
      broader Free Software community by ensuring legal experts from
      commercial, non-commercial and independent entities can share
      experience and insight.
    </p>

    <p>
      If you are a legal expert and would like to contribute to future
      network activities, please contact FSFE at <a
        href="mailto:legal@fsfeurope.org">legal@fsfeurope.org</a>.
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

