<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-09-30">

  <head>
    <title>Open internship position as a technical intern</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Open internship position as a technical intern</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
FSFE is a charity dedicated to empowering users to control technology.
We are working to build freedom in digital society. We operate in a lively
environment with volunteers from many countries. We are looking for a
technical intern to join our team for three months, taking part in the
work to rewrite and implement a new account management system.</p>

<p>
What we can offer is:
<ul>
<li>A challenging and exciting time with a dynamic NGO working internationally</li>
<li>A close-up view of organisational and community processes</li>
<li>A chance to take the initiative and put your ideas into practice</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>
What you'll do:
<ul>
<li>Contribute to the FSFE's ongoing project to rewrite (from scratch!)
   our account management system, focusing on primarily the front-end
   system</li>
<li>Contribute to our other projects, interacting with our volunteer community</li>
<li>General office tasks</li>
<li>Work with our system administrators and other staff and volunteers</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>
Be sure to read our pages about <a href="/contribute/internship">internships</a>
in general before applying!
</p>

<h2>Basic details</h2>
<p>
<strong>Location:</strong> Berlin, Germany.  Please note the FSFE has no ability to help
with accommodation or travel, you will need to cover this yourself and
arrange this prior to your internship.</p>

<p><strong>Duration:</strong> 3 months full time at 35 hours per week, starting around the
1st of January 2017 or as otherwise agreed.</p>

<p><strong>Compensation:</strong> This internship is salaried with a basic salary of €1,289 per month.</p>

<h2>Work responsibility and activities</h2>
<p>
You will be in charge of rewriting our account management system, a
central piece of our infrastructure which is the public facing interface
for new membership registrations, donations and volunteers.
</p>
<p>
By rewriting the system with a Python framework, we hope to make it more
modular and maintainable so we can tackle some of the limitations of the
current system which is a blocker for some of our other work.
</p>

<h2>Qualifications</h2>
<p>
You need to have experience from development in Python, and some
knowledge of common web frameworks (Flask, Pyramid or Django, for
instance). Some CSS framework experience is also beneficial.
</p>

<h2>Formal requirements</h2>
<p>
You must be fluent in English and will be required to show that you
can legally work in Germany; either by being an EU citizen, or
by having a residence and work permit for the duration. The FSFE
can not help you in getting either of these documents, but we will
accept them if you have them (for instance because you are studying
in Germany and are allowed to work).
</p>
<p>
You must also have a German tax number which you get by registering
with the residents registration office (Einwohnermeldeamt) in Germany.
This should ideally be done before starting the internship, or at
latest on the first days of your internship.
</p>

<h2>Application deadline</h2>
<p>
We would like to receive your application by the 1st of November, but will
be communicating with prospective applicants already before then.
</p>

<h2>How to apply</h2>
<p>
Send your application containing a letter of motivation, a CV by e-mail
to office@fsfe.org. Please make sure to write clearly you apply for
the internship position with reference TI-WEB. We prefer to receive
your documents in PDF format.
</p>

<h2>Contact persons</h2>
<p>
If you have any questions about the position or any administrative
details in connection with it, you're welcome to contact:
</p>
<p>
<ul>
 <li>Jonas Öberg about the position itself, and the work involved</li>
 <li>Ulrike Sliwinski for any administrative questions</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>
Both will be reading and responding if you send your question to the
office@fsfe.org address. We look forward to reading your application!
</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag content="internship">internship</tag>
</tags>
<author id="oberg" />
</html>
