<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-06-24">

  <head>
    <title>FSFE's answers to the European Commission's Public Consultation: 
    Revision of the European Interoperability Framework</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
<h1>FSFE's answers to the European Commission's Public Consultation: 
    Revision of the European Interoperability Framework</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">The European Commission is 
<a href="http://ec.europa.eu/isa/consultations/impact-assessment-for-the-revision-of-the-eis-eifl_en.htm">asking 
for public input with regard to its plans to renew the European 
Interoperability Framework</a> (EIF). The EIF aims to promote enhanced 
interoperability in the EU public sector. The document, originally intended 
as a set of non-binding guidelines for the EU public administration, is 
going through its third revision since its initial adoption in 2004. The 
FSFE has prepared its <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/eif-v3.en.html">comments 
for the draft of the revised guidelines</a>.</p>

<p>The FSFE sees some improvement compared to 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20101216-01.en.html">the previous 
revision</a>, in particular concerning the preferred use of Open Standards (called 
"open specifications" in the draft revision) in European public services.</p>

<p>However, we need to address several shortcomings. The statement that 
FRAND (allegedly "fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory") licensing terms 
for standards "will foster competition" (according to the Commission) is 
just plain wrong. FRAND licenses are highly anti-competitive in nature 
and it is a well-established fact that  
<a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/why-frand-is-bad-for-free-software.en.html">they 
make it impossible for a standard to be implemented in Free Software</a>.</p>

<p>The draft also ignores the proven relationship between interoperability 
and Free Software. Most, if not all, national interoperability frameworks 
across Europe have based their success on substantial adoptions of Free 
Software and Open Standards in public services. So much so it is to all 
effects impossible to implement an interoperability framework without Free 
Software. For more information, please see 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/eif-v3.en.html">our full comment</a>.</p>

<p>The FSFE encourages you to <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/isa/consultations/impact-assessment-for-the-revision-of-the-eis-eifl_en.htm">provide 
your own input to the ongoing consultation</a>. Replies can be submitted 
by individuals, companies, academic institutions, and public administrations 
before <strong>29 June</strong>. Feel free to reuse the arguments laid out 
above for your own submission and tell the Commission how Free Software 
and Open Standards are quintessential for interoperability.</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>EIF</tag>
  <tag content="Open Standards">OpenStandards</tag>
  <tag content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="European Commission">EuropeanCommission</tag>
  <tag content="Digital Single Market">Digital Single Market</tag>
</tags>
</html>
