<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2020-08-02">

<head>
  <title>Free Software Foundation Europe Summit 2016 -- Not-a-tech conference</title>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>Free Software Foundation Europe Summit 2016 -- Not-a-tech conference</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Free Software advocates from all over Europe will be
meeting in Berlin from the 2nd to the 4th of September at the FSFE's 2016
summit. Apart from working on furthering the adoption of Free Software in
Europe, we will also be celebrating the FSFE's 15th anniversary.</p>

<p>One of the main missions of the Free Software community in general, and the
FSFE in particular, is to put users back into the driver's seat, and have the
people control technology and not the other way around.</p>

<p>So, even though this conference has the word "software" in its name, this is
not a tech conference<a class="fn" id="fnref1" href="#fn1">1</a> as such. It is
more a conference on how we are going shape the world of tech, indeed, how we
are going to try and shape your life and the life of everybody around you with
regards to computers, phones and the Internet.</p>

<p>This may seem like a goal lofty in extreme, but during its 15 years of
existence the FSFE has been instrumental in a successful <a
href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">antitrust-cases against big software
corporations</a> that intended to dominate the market of personal computers; we
have managed to <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">maintain software patents
forbidden in Europe</a>, avoiding a veritable apocalypse for small and
medium-sized tech companies; and we have <a
href="/activities/ftf/activities.html">worked alongside gpl-violations.org to
get free licenses vindicated in German courts of law</a>, setting a
ground-breaking precedent for the whole of the EU.</p>

<p>It would not be an exaggeration to say that the FSFE has transformed the
foundations of IT and that we have had a deep, positive impact on anybody who
has sat in front of a computer, used a phone, or played on a tablet in the
last decade or so.</p>

<p>And each year, the number of members in our community grows, as does our
influence. We do not reach only developers any more, but also academics,
aficionados, lawyers, artists, marketers, businesspeople, and journalists.</p>

<p>So, if you missed our prior events, we would like to invite you to attend <a
href="https://fsfe.org/community/events/2016/summit/frontpage.en.html">the
FSFE Summit 2016</a>. We look forward to welcoming you and remain at your
disposal to help you organise your visit to our event.</p>

<p>P.S.: As part of our pre-event awareness campaign, we are also mobilising our
community in your area. If you would like to talk to the people that run the
local/national chapters in your country/region/city and see how they have made
a difference, contact us so we can help you get in touch with them.</p>

<ol>
    <li id="fn1">Note that if you are also interested in bleeding edge high
      technology development, the FSFE summit will be held simultaneously and
      at the same location as the QtCon and aKademy. These two events bring
      together developers who are hard at work re-shaping human-facing
      interfaces. As a member of the press, you will also have free access to
      that side of the conference.<a href="#fnref1">↩</a></li>
</ol>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Compulsory Routers">Routers</tag>
  <tag content="Competition">Competition</tag>
  <tag content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="Germany">Germany</tag>
</tags>
</html>
