<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-09-28">

  <head>
    <title>EU copyright proposal reinforces DRM</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>EU copyright proposal reinforces DRM</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">On 14 September the European Commission (EC) published 
its long-awaited <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/proposal-directive-european-parliament-and-council-copyright-digital-single-market">proposal
for a Directive on copyright in the Digital Single Market</a>. While we 
welcome the proposal to introduce a mandatory exception for 'text 
and data mining' (TDM) in the field of scientific research, we are concerned 
about the inclusion of a far-reaching "technical safeguards" clause granted 
to rightholders in order to limit the newly established exception.</p>

<p>The proposal grants a mandatory exception to research organisations to 
carry out TDM of copyrighted works to which they have lawful access. The 
exception is only applicable to research organisations, thus narrowing 
its scope and excluding everyone else with the lawful access to the copyrighted 
works.</p>

<p>According to the accompanying Impact Assessment, the TDM exception has 
the potential of inflicting a high number of downloads of the works, and 
that is why the rightholders are allowed to apply "necessary" technical 
measures in the name of "security and integrity" of their networks and 
databases.</p>

<p>Such a requirement, as it is proposed by the EC in the current text, 
gives rightholders a wide-reaching right to restrict the effective implementation
of the new exception. Rightholders are free to apply whichever measure 
they deem "necessary" to protect their rights in the TDM exception, and 
to choose the format and modalities of such technical measures.</p>

<p>This provision will lead to a wider implementation of 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/drm/index.en.html">"digital restrictions 
management"</a> (DRM) technologies. These technologies are already used 
extensively to arbitrarily restrict the lawful use of accessible works 
under the new TDM exception. This reference to "necessary technical safeguards" 
is excessive and can make the mandatory TDM exception useless. It is worth 
repeating that the exception is already heavily limited to cover only r
esearch organisations with public interest.</p>

<p>Further reasons to forbid the use of DRM technologies in the exception are:</p>

<ul>
<li><strong>DRM leads to vendor lock-in.</strong> As researchers will 
need a specific compatible software in order to be able to access the work, 
they will be locked to a particular vendor or provider for arbitrary reasons. 
These technical safeguards will most likely stop researchers from exercising 
their right under the exception of using their own tools to extract data, 
and can lead to the factual monopoly of a handful of companies providing 
these technologies.</li> 
<li><strong>DRM excludes free software users.</strong> DRM always relies 
on proprietary components to work. These components, by definition, are 
impossible to implement in Free Software. The right of Free Software users 
to access resources under the exception will be violated.</li>
<li><strong>DRM technologies increase the cost of research and education.</strong> 
Accessing DRM-protected resources typically requires purchasing specific 
proprietary software. Such technology is expensive and it is important to 
ask how much the implementation of these technologies would cost for research 
and educational institutions throughout Europe. Furthermore, very often 
this software cannot be shared, so every research workstation would need 
to purchase a separate copy or license for the software.</li> 
<li><strong>DRM artificially limits sharing between peers.</strong> 
A typical functionality DRM provides is to cap the number of copies you 
can make of documents and data. This will force different researchers to 
access and download data and documents several times even if they are 
working on the same team. This is a waste of time and resources. As DRM 
also typically limits the number of downloads, teams could find themselves 
cut of from resources they legitimately have a right to access under the 
exception.</li>
</ul>

<p>We ask the European Parliament and the EU member states to explicitly 
forbid the use of harmful DRM practices in the EU copyright reform, 
especially with regard to already heavily limited exceptions.</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Copyright">Copyright</tag>
  <tag content="DRM">DRM</tag>
  <tag content="Digital Single Market">DigitalSingleMarket</tag>
</tags>
</html>
