<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2018-04-11">

  <head>
    <title>Joint Statement on the Radio Lockdown Directive</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Joint Statement on the Radio Lockdown Directive</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">23 organisations including the Free Software Foundation 
Europe (FSFE) <a href="/activities/radiodirective/statement.html">joined up in 
proposing measures</a> to EU institutions and EU member states to avoid 
negative implications on users' rights and Free Software imposed by the EU 
Radio Equipment Directive 2014/53/EU.</p>

<p>The ‘<a href="/activities/radiodirective/radiodirective.html">Radio Lockdown 
Directive</a>’ that will be applicable in the EU since 13 June 2016 threatens 
software freedom, users' rights, fair competition, innovation, environment, and 
volunteering – without comparable benefits for security. It introduces 
disproportionate ‘essential requirement’ in the form of forcing device 
manufacturers to prove radio regulatory compliance for every possible software 
able to run on every product using the radio frequency spectrum. In practice, 
this means that in the future only particular software authorised by the 
manufacturers can be installed on any device connecting through wireless and 
mobile networks or GPS: e.g. routers, mobile phones, WiFi cards and the laptops 
they are built in, or almost all devices including network functionality.</p>

<p>This requirement will lock users to hardware manufacturers, and will also 
disadvantage businesses based on Free Software or any other alternative 
software not installed by default by the manufacturer of the device. Thereby it 
will have negative implications on fair competition and freedom to conduct 
business. The requirement to assess every possible hardware and software 
combination to be compliant with the RED – which is envisaged to enhance 
security of radio devices – disables users and businesses to choose 
software whose security problems can be fixed by everybody without having to 
relay on the vendor.</p>

<p>The FSFE and the other signatories, therefore, ask the EU institutions and 
the EU member states to safeguard rights of users and businesses to use and 
install Free Software and any other alternative third-party software on their 
devices; to avoid the lockdown of the devices to the software provided by the 
hardware manufacturer; and refrain from shifting the responsibility for the 
software's regulatory compliance from the users to the manufacturers when 
making changes to the default configuration. Software and hardware should not 
be treated differently in that respect. The EU Commission has been entitled to 
adopt delegated acts which can make these vitally needed adjustments.</p>

<p>The joint statement on the Radio Lockdown Directive is open to more 
signatures. Whether a user, a charity project, or a business, the Radio 
Lockdown Directive affects everyone. We ask other organisations and companies 
to support our statement and make sure that the Radio Lockdown Directive will 
not place blanket, unnecessary and disproportionate restrictions on the rights 
of consumers and businesses when implementing the Directive into national  
legislations.</p>

<p>Please also read <a 
href="/activities/radiodirective/radiodirective.html">our detailed 
analysis</a>, and feel free to contact us if you have any questions.</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Radio Lockdown Directive">RadioDirective</tag>
  <tag content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="Competition">Competition</tag>
  <tag content="European Parliament">EuropeanParliament</tag>
  <tag content="European Commission">EuropeanCommission</tag>
</tags>
</html>
