<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2018-11-09">

  <head>
    <title>Russian Bill makes Free Software a Public Priority</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Russian Bill makes Free Software a Public Priority</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
Legislators have drafted 
<a href="http://asozd2.duma.gov.ru/addwork/scans.nsf/ID/15186D4536B068A54325804200466D57/$File/1187178-6.PDF?OpenElement">a bill</a>
that will boost Free Software on multiple levels within the Russian 
Federation's public sector.</p>

<p>The draft, approved by the Russian Federation's Duma (lower chamber) 
in mid-October, requires the public sector prioritise Free Software over 
proprietary alternatives, gives precedence to local IT businesses that offer 
Free Software for public tenders, and recognises the need to encourage 
collaboration with the global network of Free Software organisations and 
communities.</p>

<p>The text enforces prioritising Free Software over proprietary alternatives 
by requiring public administrations to formally justify any purchase of 
proprietary software. The purchase will be considered unjustified if a 
Free Software solution exists that satisfies the list of technical specifications 
and standards. In addition, all IT purchase agreements in the public 
sphere must be registered in a dedicated registrar and detail the overall 
quantity and price of both purchased proprietary and Free Software.</p>

<p>In order to encourage local businesses, IT companies that distribute 
and provide Free Software products and services will receive by default 
bonus points in public tenders. With this measure, legislators intend to 
reduce the administration's dependency on foreign IT providers of proprietary 
software.</p>

<p>Despite the above, the bill also recognises the universality of Free 
Software. As the legislators acknowledge in explanatory notes appended 
to the text, the concept of "Russian Free Software" is meaningless due 
to the global nature of Free Software. The text recognises the need to 
support Russian Free Software companies in order to better integrate into 
global Free Software communities.</p>

<blockquote>	
<p>"[...]законопроект предлагает тем самым уйти от понятия «российское СПО», 
поскольку наборы программных кодов, открытых по разного вида свободным 
лицензиям, представляют собой по сути единую мировую платформу[...]"</p>

<p>English translation:</p>
<p>[...]the draft bill suggests to withhold the concept of "Russian Free
Software", because the source code available under different open licences
represents in essence one global platform[...]</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Another interesting aspect of the law is how the authors of the bill 
have made an extra effort to ensure the language used in the draft are 
correct. For one, only software carrying licenses that allow 
<a href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">the four freedoms</a>
may be legally labelled as "Free Software":</p>

<blockquote>

<p>"Свободное программное обеспечение (СПО) - программное обеспечение, 
имеющее открытый исходный код и распространяемое по открытым лицензиям на 
условиях специального лицензионного договора, на основании которого пользователь 
получает неограниченное право на его установку, запуск, а также свободное 
использование, изучение, распространение и изменение (модификацию) по своему 
усмотрению в любых, не запрещенных законом целях."</p>

<p>English translation:</p>
<p>"Free Software - software which is open source and distributed under 
open licences based on special licensing contract terms, allowing a user 
unrestricted right to install, run, use, study, distribute and modify it 
freely, according to one's needs and for purposes that are not restricted 
by law."</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Secondly, every time the bill text refers to the most famous free operating 
system, it refers to it as "GNU/Linux", not simply "Linux". This indicates 
an awareness not commonly found in amongst authors of national legislations.</p>

<p>"The bill is an example of public software procurement done right." says 
Polina Malaja, Policy Analyst and Legal Coordinator at the FSFE. "The FSFE 
has long advised having all public administrations prioritise Free Software 
and recommended that all software developed by and for the public sector 
be published under a Free Software licence. As the authors of the Russian 
bill have come to realise, without Free Software public administrations 
will never be able to claim they have real digital sovereignty. Other 
European administrations should take note."</p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>Policy</tag>
  <tag>Procurement</tag>
</tags>
</html>
