<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-07-25">

<head>
  <title>Compulsory Routers: what customers have to take care of now</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Compulsory Routers: what customers have to take care of now</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Up until now, Internet service providers (ISPs) in 
Germany determined the router users had to use to connect to the 
Internet. The user had no say in this decision. This changes on August 
1. A new law will allow users choose the device that gets installed in 
their homes. The FSFE wants to ensure everybody knows about their new 
rights and is asking users to report cases in which ISPs try to avoid 
the new regulation.</p>

<p>"Compulsory Routers" are what we call the devices imposed on users, 
forbidding them from using any other appliance to access the Internet. 
Compulsory routers are often the subject of critical security flaws 
which users can't legally or technically fix themselves. They are also 
known to be incompatible with certain network devices and standards, 
like IPv6, or to support only a small number of important features.</p>

<p>However, the legal situation was ambiguous and ISPs defined the 
first router or modem after the wall socket as part of their network. 
They could thus bar users from controlling the technology installed 
within their own homes, despite the fact that the users were even 
paying for the electricity that run the devices.</p>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe took up the fight to outlaw 
Compulsory Routers in 2013, and we have finally <a 
href="/news/2015/news-20151105-01.html">won a major landmark 
victory</a>: from August 1 onwards, clients of German internet 
providers are allowed by law to use any terminal device they choose. 
Regardless of whether it is a DSL or cable connection, the ISP will 
have to supply the information you need to connect an alternative 
router to use the Internet and telephone network.</p>

<h2>Help us track the implementation</h2>

<p>The law is very clear with regard to your new rights, but, based on 
past behaviours of ISPs, the FSFE must assume many providers will 
ignore the regulation and will continue to try and force their clients 
to use their default router.</p>

<p>ISPs will probably make the argument that the law only applies to 
new customers, or that a connection to the Internet with alternative 
devices will be unstable, or denying support to clients with devices 
other than the ones they provide.</p>

<p>We want to make sure that these misbehaviours are made public and we 
need your help for that. If you are a client of a German internet 
provider, we ask you exercise your new right and start using an 
alternative device, ideally one that runs Free Software.</p>

<p>Once your new device is up and running, we need you to provide us 
with feedback on whether you had any issues while running your new 
router. We will collect this data and confront providers that are not 
in compliance with the new law. We have also created a <a 
href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/CompulsoryRouters/Implementation/Germany">wiki 
page</a> where we report information, testing procedures, results, and 
user experiences.</p>

<h2>Further information</h2>

<p>For more information on Compulsory Routers and why they are bad, 
please visit our <a href="/activities/routers/">campaign page</a>. Also 
see the <a href="/activities/routers/timeline.html">timeline of the 
most important events</a> related to this campaign. To contribute to 
this and other FSFE campaigns that defend your freedom, you can support 
us with a <a href="/donate/">donation</a> or by becoming a <a 
href="/join">sustaining member</a>.</p>

<h2>FSFE Summit 2016</h2>

<p>If you're interested in knowing more about how Free Software helps 
defend other important rights, we will be holding <a 
href="/summit16">the FSFE yearly summit at the beginning of September 
in Berlin</a>. Come along and discover how you can also help return the 
control over technology to people.</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Compulsory Routers">Routers</tag>
  <tag content="Competition">Competition</tag>
  <tag content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="Germany">de</tag>
</tags>
</html>
