<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-06-29">

  <head>
    <title>Software Heritage initiative to create an archive of Free Software code</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Software Heritage initiative to create an archive of Free Software code</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">The Free Software Foundation Europe supports the creation 
of the Software Heritage initiative, a platform for the distribution, 
advancement, and, especially, long-term preservation and archiving of 
Free Software code. The Software Heritage initiative collects and collates 
vast amounts of free licensed code to protect it for future generations.</p>

<p>The importance of software in the modern world cannot be overstated. 
Software is at the crux of all contemporary technological development and 
has become essential for all areas of scientific research. Software plays 
a pivotal role in our daily lives, our industries and our society. Software 
has become the reflection of our technological, scientific and cultural 
progress.</p>

<p>However, software is prone to disappear, either because it stops being 
profitable, or projects get cancelled, or the code is deemed obsolete and 
gets erased, or is left to fade on storage that physically degrades over 
time.</p>

<p>The <a href="https://www.softwareheritage.org/">Software Heritage</a> 
initiative is created and funded by <a href="http://www.inria.fr/en/">Inria</a>. 
It collects programs, applications and snippets of code distributed under 
free licenses from a wide variety of active and defunct sources, its aim 
being to protect code from sinking into oblivion. The distributed and 
redundant back-end hardens the system against a potentially disastrous 
losses of data and guarantees its availability for users.</p>

<p>Users can check if a certain file exists within the system and propose 
new sources the Software Heritage engine can explore in search of more 
code to store. Soon users will also be able to find out where the code 
originated from using the Provenance information feature, browse the stored 
code, run full-text searches on all files, and download the content.</p>

<p>The Heritage stores only Free Software, in other words, software that 
can be used, studied, adapted and shared freely with others; and this is 
because the Software Heritage initiative relies on being able to share 
the software it stores. The Software Heritage website is designed to be 
a useful tool for professionals, scientists, educators and end-users. 
Users must be allowed to re-use the code in other products, cutting development 
time and costs; engineers should be able to discover how others solved 
certain problems; or compare the efficiency of different solutions to the 
same problem. And, of course, researchers must have explicit permission 
to study the evolution of code over time. This is only possible if the code 
is distributed under a Free and Open Source license.</p>

<blockquote>Matthias Kirschner, President of the Free Software Foundation 
Europe, says: "Software is the most important cultural technology of 
today's society; it frames what we can and what we cannot do. Software 
shapes our communication and culture, our economy, education and research, 
as well as politics. It is important to preserve our collective knowledge 
about how software has influenced humankind. Collecting source code makes 
Software Heritage a valuable resource to understand how our society worked 
at any given time, and to build upon knowledge from humankind."</blockquote>

<p>The Software Heritage intiative ensures today's code will be around 
for everybody in the future.</p>

<h3>About Inria</h3>

<p><a href="http://www.inria.fr/en/">Inria</a>, the French National Institute 
for computer science and applied mathematics, promotes "scientific excellence 
for technology transfer and society". Graduates from the world's top universities, 
Inria's 2,700 employees rise to the challenges of digital sciences. With 
this open, agile model, Inria is able to explore original approaches with 
its partners in industry and academia and provide an efficient response 
to the multidisciplinary and application challenges of the digital transformation. 
Inria transfers expertise and research results to companies (startups, 
SMEs and major groups) in fields as diverse as healthcare, transport, energy, 
communications, security and privacy protection, smart cities and the factory 
of the future.</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Software Heritage">SoftwareHeritage</tag>
  <tag content="Free Software archive">FreeSoftwareArchive</tag>
  <tag content="Inria">Inria</tag>
</tags>
</html>
