<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2018-02-08">

	<head>
    <title>I love Free Software Day 2016</title>
	</head>
	<body>
	
	<h1>I love Free Software Day 2016</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">It's time to say "thank you" on 14th of February, 
the "<a href="http://ilovefs.org">I love Free Software</a>" Day 2016. 
The Free Software Foundation Europe asks all Free Software users to use 
the traditional day of love to think of the hardworking people 
contributing to the Free Software we all depend upon. <a 
href="/news/2015/news-20150303-01.html">As every year</a> there are 
many ways for people to participate in this online campaign which has 
first been celebrated five years ago.</p>

<p>In the Free Software society we exchange a lot of criticism. We write bug 
reports, tell others how they can improve the software, ask them for new 
features, and generally are not shy about criticising others. There is nothing 
wrong about that. It helps us to constantly improve. But sometimes we forget to 
show the hardworking people behind the software our appreciation. We should not 
underestimate the power of a simple "thank you" to motivate Free Software 
contributors in their important work for society. The 14th of February (a 
Sunday this year) is the ideal day to do that.</p>

<h2>Show your love for Free Software</h2>

<p>Free Software drives a huge number of devices in our everyday life. It ensures 
our freedom, our security, civil rights, and privacy. It enables everyone to 
participate in a fair society. But as with people, everybody has different 
reasons to love Free Software. Let's show this variety to the world!</p>

<p>As the traditional day to show one's appreciation to people, Valentine's Day 
is the perfect opportunity to say <strong>thank you</strong> to the 
contributors of the various Free Software you love: developers, translators, 
designers, testers, or documentation writers, of huge softwares or smaller 
projects. All of them work on the Free Software ecosystem which we can enjoy 
every day.</p>

<h2>Be part of #ilovefs</h2>

<p>It doesn't matter who and where you are and what you do – everyone can 
participate at the "I love Free Software" day in many different ways:</p>

<ul>
  <li><strong>Pictures</strong>: Send some cool videos or pictures of yourself or your friends, a meme 
  image, or something completely different – the main thing is creativity! And 
  with each video and image you automatically participate in our 
  <strong>#ilovefs competition</strong> (visit our website for more information). See the <a 
  href="/campaigns/ilovefs/whylovefs/gallery.html">pictures of last 
  years</a> for some inspiration.</li>

  <li><strong>Postcards</strong>: Thank your favourite contributors for their work in an individual way. 
  For example by sending one of <a 
  href="/contribute/spreadtheword.html#ilovefs-postcard">our 
  postcards</a>.</li>

  <li><strong>Spread the word</strong>: Show your appreciation publicly using social networks or your blog to 
  demonstrate the world how many people love Free Software – and thereby 
  motivate others to do the same. Just use the hashtag 
  <strong>#ilovefs</strong> on <a href="http://gnu.io/">GnuSocial</a>, <a 
  href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ilovefs">Twitter</a>, or other 
  platforms.</li>

  <li><strong>Do it yourself</strong>: You didn't find what you were looking for? No problem, just do something 
  else! Create small chocolate bars, design new promotion material... Find out 
  how to make #ilovefs more unique <a 
  href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/ILoveFS-2016">with your contribution</a>.</li>
</ul>

<p>If everybody contributes a small part we can enjoy a beautiful "I love Free 
Software" day together. Let's share videos and pictures, send postcards, tweets and blog 
posts, and show our love individually. Happy I love Free Software day 
everyone!</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="I Love Free Software">ilovefs</tag>
</tags>
</html>
