<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-01-26">

  <head>
    <title>Document Freedom Day about to move into the hands of the Digital Freedom Foundation</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
	<h1>Document Freedom Day about to move into the hands of the Digital Freedom Foundation</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">The Free Software Foundation Europe is delighted to hand
over the organisation of the international Document Freedom Day to the Digital
Freedom Foundation. Document Freedom Day is the global campaign for document
liberation and awareness of Open Standards with grassroots events throughout
the world. The Digital Freedom Foundation is best known to organise Software
Freedom Day, the international day to celebrate Free Software. </p>

<p><a href="/news/2008/news-20080220-01.html">Document Freedom Day
  (DFD) was initiated in 2008</a> as a global rallying point for Document
Liberation, as a counterstatement to the adoption of OOXML standard. What
started under the umbrella of Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) with a
broad support by international organisations became an annual event to rise
awareness about document liberation and the importance of Open Standards.
During the years we had some hundreds events all over the globe, we have seen
impressive artwork, inspiring comics and videos and we have seen political
parties, companies and non-profit organisations using Document Freedom Day to
let the world know about the power and freedom of interoperability.</p>
        
<p>After 8 years, however, the FSFE sees the potential to further broaden
Document Freedom Day as the day of Open Standards by handing over the campaign
to an organisation that has best experience in running global awareness
campaigns, the Digital Freedom Foundation (DFF). The DFF is known to run the
Software Freedom Day (SFD) campaign, the Education Freedom Day and the Hardware
Freedom Day. This way, DFD's vibrant community can profit from synergy effects
and the experience that DFF bring with them.</p>
        
<blockquote><p>"DFD and the FSFE are really happy about the Digital Freedom
  Foundation taking over Document Freedom Day and we look forward to this
  cooperation." says Erik Albers, DFD's campaign manager. "The DFF is free to
come up with new ideas or minor changes to the campaigns concept but we keep
DFD as it is: A campaign to promote Open Standards with group participation on
a local level."</p></blockquote>
        
<blockquote><p>"The Digital Freedom Foundation is excited to continue the now 8
  year old celebration initiated by the Free Software Foundation Europe. We
  look forward to add an event as important as promoting Open Standards
worldwide to what we do. Our past cooperations with the FSFE have given us
great confidence into working together and DFD is a great opportunity to yet
work again on something both organisations feel important to their core
values." says Frederic Muller, President of the Digital Freedom
Foundation.</p></blockquote>
        
<p>Save the date: Next Document Freedom Day will be on March 30, 2016, and the
call for events will follow soon.</p>

	</body>

	<tags>
		<tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="Document Freedom Day">DFD</tag>
		<tag content="Digital Freedom Foundation">DFF</tag>
	</tags>

</html>
