<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - EUCD - Copyright extensions that harm</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p class="postit">
      Meanwhile, the EUCD has been implemented in all EU member countries.
      These pages are kept for archiving purposes.
    </p>

      <h1>EUCD - Copyright extensions that harm</h1>
      <p>
        In December 1996 in Geneve the WIPO Copyright Treaty was signed by
        most, if not all, developed countries. By signing this treaty these
        countries compromised themselves to give away the right to use a
        copyrighted work in favour of protection of electronic protections,
        independently of their effectiveness.
      </p>
      <p>
        Today we are starting to see the effects of this kind of
        legislation. The U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and
        the European Union Copyright Directive (EUCD) pass the WIPO treaty
        into effective law. This page is about the effects of this kind of
        legislation and related resources.
      </p>
      <p>
        The risks of this kind of legislation are:
      </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
	  <strong>Monopolies on file formats</strong> - This is the issue that
	  is worrying libraries. The ability to effectively control a file
	  format means that each e-book format will have its own reader and it
	  will only be readable by that company's reader. Maintaining access
	  to all the different kinds of readers throughout decades needs the
	  kind of personnel and technological ability that libraries can't
	  afford right now, not to mention the cost of e-book readers that
	  they'll need to have to give access to the library's users.
	</li>
	<li>
	  <strong>Interoperability</strong> - If you can't use and share tools
	  to analyze protocols, because they can be used to circumvent
	  ineffective technological measures, then it's not possible to put
	  two systems working together unless both vendors publish information
	  on the protocols they use. Knowing the trend of proprietary software
	  vendors to trap a client in its systems, this is not a realistic
	  scenario.
	</li>
	<li>
	  <strong>Insecurity</strong> - In the last years the full disclosure
	  movement has made considerable improvements on the whole security of
	  computer systems. This was done by forcing vendors to correct the
	  vulnerabilities through the publishing of vulnerabilities even if
	  they weren't corrected in a limited timeframe. To avoid an image
	  problem most vendors started correcting in days what used to take
	  months or even years to do. With this legislation a vulnerability
	  that allows the circumvention of rights-management information
	  cannot be even communicated. This means that full disclosure is not
	  an option, and that we all lose its advantages.
	</li>
	<li>
	  <strong>Freedom of Speech</strong> - By allowing copyright owners to
	  define terms of use and protecting all measures taken by those
	  owners to enforce those terms of use can limit rights as basic as
	  freedom of speech. The most recent example is Microsoft Frontpage
	  2002's latest End-User License Agreement (EULA) that prohibits the
	  usage of the software to create sites that criticise Microsoft or
	  any of its subsidiaries.
	</li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Legislation</h2>
      <p>
        The pieces of legislation that follow the letter of the <a
        href="http://www.wipo.int/clea/docs/en/wo/wo033en.htm">WIPO Copyright
        Treaty</a> are:
      </p>
      <ul>
	<li><a href="http://www.loc.gov/copyright/legislation/dmca.pdf">Digital Millennium Copyrigth Act</a> (USA)</li>
	<li><a href="http://europa.eu.int/smartapi/cgi/sga_doc?smartapi!celexapi!prod!CELEXnumdoc&amp;lg=EN&amp;numdoc=32001L0029&amp;model=guichett">European Union Copyright Directive</a> (EU)</li>
	<li><a href="http://www.ag.gov.au/publications/copyfactsheet/copyfactsheet.html">Copyright Amendment (Digital Agenda) Act 2000</a> (AU)</li>
      </ul> 
      <h2>Legislation Analysis</h2>
      <p>
        This legislation as already been analyzed by law professors, experts
        and others. Following is a sample of those analysis:
      </p>
      <ul>
	<li><a href="http://www.ivir.nl/publications/hugenholtz/opinion-EIPR.html">An analysis by a dutch pofessor of law</a>.</li>
	<li><a href="eucd-fs.html">Copyright Extensions threaten Free Software in Europe</a></li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Organisations against Copyright Extensions</h2>
      <p>
        Some organisations have understood the impact of this kind of
        legislation and have made statements about it:
      </p>
      <ul>
	<li><a href="http://www.acm.org/usacm/IP/dmca.exemption.htm">Association for Computer Machinery</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.eff.org/Legal/active_legal.html">Electronic Frontier Foundation</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.eblida.org/topics/position/legaffa.htm">EBLIDA
	Comments on Copyright Directive</a> - European Bureau of Library,
	Information and Documentation Associations, The European Consumers'
	Association, European Association of Consumer Electronics
	Manufacturers, European Blind Union, European Disability Forum,
	International League of Societies for Persons with Mental Handicap -
	European Association
	</li>
      </ul>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
