<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Information for Booth Volunteers - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/contribute/">Contribute</a></p>
    <h1>Information for Booth Volunteers</h1>


  	<h2>Why this work is important</h2>

    <p>
      One of the main tasks of the Free Software Foundation Europe is to
      inform the public about Free Software and related topics. For
      this, it is essential to be present with a booth on tradeshows,
      fairs and expos.  Helping with this task means supporting FSFE in
      its very basic work.
    </p>

    <p>
      Booth volunteers talk to people to explain Free Software, FSFE's
      work and answer their questions. Working as a booth volunteer
      means at the same time supporting Free Software, meeting
      interesting people, and having a lot of fun.
    </p>


  	<h2>How to prepare</h2>

    <p>
      At every event, there will be experienced people from the FSFE
      present to support the booth volunteers, so it is not necessary at
      all to be an expert in every single aspect of Free Software.
      However, some basic knowledge about Free Software and the FSFE is
      helpful:
    </p>

	  <ul>
		  <li>
        The <a href="/about">"About us"</a> section is a good source for
        this.
      </li>
		  <li>
        Beside that you should read through our <a
          href="/documents/printable/">leaflets</a> to get an overview
        of our current activities.
      </li>
	  </ul>


  	<h2>How to start</h2>

    <p>
      There is a booth mailing list where FSFE's presence at all kinds
      of events is coordinated. Everybody intersted in helping out can
      subscribe <a
      href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/booth">here</a>. 
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
