<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
    <title>FSFE's Comments on the EU Digital Single Market Strategy</title>
</head>

<body class="article" microformats="h-entry">

<p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our work</a></p>

<h1 id="comments-on-the-EU-Digital-Single-Market-Strategy">Comments on 
the EU Digital Single Market Strategy</h1>

<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

<p>The European Commission has set a goal to make the EU's single market
fit for the digital age by adopting <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/priorities/digital-single-market/docs/dsm-communication_en.pdf">“A Digital Single Market Strategy”</a>(COM (2015)195, 6 May 2015, hereinafter ‘Strategy’) 
which is aimed at bringing down regulatory barriers between 28 different 
national markets and unlock online opportunities in Europe. According to 
the Commission, a true Digital Single Market (DSM) can be achieved by 
taking the following actions:</p>

<ol>	
<li>Digitalising industry to a smart industrial system 
so that all industrial sectors should be able to integrate new 
technologies.</li>

<li>Developing standards and interoperability with a European push in 
areas such as the "Internet of Things", cybersecurity, big data, and "cloud 
computing".</li>

<li>Launching initiatives on the "free flow of data" and a European Cloud 
as a catalyst for growth, innovation and digitisation.</li>

<li>Unlocking the benefits of high-quality e-services and advancing 
digital skills.</li>
</ol>

<p>Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a charity that empowers 
everyone to control technology. Software is deeply involved in all 
aspects of our lives; and it is important that this technology empowers 
rather than restricts. Free Software gives everyone the rights to use, 
understand, adapt and share software. FSFE helps individuals, businesses 
and organisations to understand how Free Software contributes to freedom, 
transparency, and self-determination. We enhance the rights of users and
businesses by abolishing barriers to Free Software adoption, encouraging 
people to use and develop Free Software, and providing resources to 
enable everyone to further promote Free Software in Europe.</p>

<p>FSFE believes that Free Software is an essential prerequisite for the 
DSM and can provide the desired innovative potential that Europe needs 
in order to be successfully competitive in the global ICT market. Free 
Software is essential for Europe's own infrastructure because it 
empowers European industries to be in full control of their technology, 
irrespective of the particular vendor or manufacturer. Therefore Free 
Software holds a significant economic importance in the EU, where the 
majority of ICT actors, especially the small and medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs), will benefit from innovative, simplified, and cost 
and time effective solutions provided by Free Software, instead of being 
dependent on the products and services provided by the biggest IT 
companies outside of Europe.</p>

<p>Hereby, FSFE reasserts that Free Software will help to achieve the 
majority of goals set by the Commission in order to achieve a truly 
digital single market. In particular:</p>

<ol>
<li>Free Software is a catalyst of innovation. By providing means to use, 
share, study and improve software <strong>Free Software is essential to the 
digitisation of all industry sectors</strong>, because it is easily accessible 
and enables shaping technology and digital services according to the 
specific needs of all actors across different industries.</li>

<li>To achieve the widest interoperability between services that 
businesses can use and rely on, <strong>Europe needs standards that are open, 
minimalistic and implementable with Free Software.</strong> In order for emerging 
areas such as "Internet of Things", "cloud" and big data to be interoperable 
between industry sectors, Free Software must be implemented as early as 
possible.</li>

<li><strong>Free Software encourages digital thinking</strong> and promotes research that 
will provide high-quality e-services and, most importantly, will enhance 
advanced digital skills through education.</li>
</ol>

<p>To unleash the innovative potential of digital market, Europe needs 
an innovative solution that cannot be based on the outdated and harmful 
software models that stand in the way of innovation and digitisation. 
Hence, FSFE asks the Commission to take into consideration the following 
proposals in order to bring Europe into the global ICT market.</p>

<h2 id="copyright-reform">Copyright reform</h2>

<p>As highlighted in the Strategy, existing differences in copyright law 
across member states constitute a significant obstacle for the DSM. 
Therefore, the Commission has set a goal to make legislative proposals 
before the end of 2015 that will reduce the differences between national 
copyright regimes and allow wider access to works across the EU, 
including further harmonisation measures.</p>

<h3 id="harmonised-exceptions">Harmonised exceptions</h3>

<p>In the Commission's Strategy the <strong>need for harmonising exceptions</strong> to 
copyright across member states is already highlighted as a measure to 
boost innovation in research and provide an incentive to create and 
invest while allowing transmission and consumption of content across 
borders<a class="fn" id="fnref1" href="#fn1">1</a>. FSFE fully supports 
the Commission in achieving this objective and points out that, to this 
aim, <strong>full harmonisation of copyright limitations is required.</strong></p>

<p>The existing framework (under the auspices of Directive 2001/29/EC) 
is unclear, as it provides an exclusive list of non-mandatory exceptions 
from which member states can 'pick and choose'. This situation is far 
from being consistent across member states and in the long-term is 
unsustainable, as it creates an excessive burden on SMEs and start-ups 
who cannot enter the European-wide market due to the lack of the 
resources needed to comply with the variety of different rules in 
national copyright laws. The proposal from the Parliament<a class="fn" id="fnref2" href="#fn2">2</a>, harmonising only <em>some</em> exceptions, will not bring any substantial 
relief to the existing situation, and will not bring the EU closer to the 
Digital Single Market, as it will produce only a slightly-less-fragmented 
framework.</p>

<p>In order to make legislation sustainable in the future, FSFE supports 
the introduction of an open norm interpretation of exceptions in special 
cases that do not conflict with the normal exploitation of the work and 
do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the author or 
rightsholder (i.e. a three-step-test according to the Berne Convention). 
Due to the rapidly changing nature of a digital environment, it is 
impossible to foresee all the situations in which a copyright limitation 
could be justified. Hence an open norm interpretation, in addition to 
the harmonised list of exceptions, will provide a certain flexibility to 
the interpretation of legitimate use of works, and will ensure the 
necessary technological neutrality of copyright framework that is needed 
in order to bring copyright legislation up to date.</p>

<p>Hereby, <strong>FSFE supports the direction taken by the Commission to achieve 
complete harmonisation of copyright exceptions</strong> in order to adapt copyright 
to the digital age, and asks the Commission to avoid compromising on that 
goal when revising copyright legislation.</p>

<h3 id="text-and-data-mining">Text and data mining</h3>

<p>Another point highlighted by the Commission in the Strategy is the 
need for a greater legal certainty in regard to text and data mining 
e.g. copying of text and datasets in search of significant correlations 
or occurrences). FSFE asks the Commission to uphold this goal for 
copyright reform and to support a legislation that explicitly grants 
anyone that has legitimately obtained the right to access a protected 
work <strong>the right to extract data from it</strong>. This is an important element for 
achieving technological neutrality, because there is no advantage in 
treating digital documents differently than their analogue counterparts 
as this creates unnecessary burdens for researchers and educational 
institutions, and thus can significantly hamper innovation.</p>

<h3 id="strengthened-copyright">Strengthened copyright</h3>

<p>Software patentability is another area of concern that needs to be 
addressed on a European level in order to unleash the full innovative 
potential of Europe. Despite the fact that software is explicitly 
excluded from patentability according to the European Patent Convention, 
software in Europe is <em>de facto</em> patented under "computer 
implemented invention". The European Patent Office (EPO) grants more than 
5 000 patents yearly in the fields of "computer technology"and "digital 
communications"<a class="fn" id="fnref3" href="#fn3">3</a>, that in 
practice cover software. Software patents in the form of "computer 
implemented inventions" have the highest growth rate, according to the 
EPO, and the number of granted software patents has been rising at a rate 
of 3 000 per year.<a class="fn" id="fnref4" href="#fn4">4</a></p>

<p>Software is treated as "literary work" and is protected by copyright 
under Software Directive 2009/24/EC, thus making the additional protection 
through patentability unnecessary. Moreover this burdens innovators with 
extra costs and legal risks, and hinders market competitiveness. The 
loss of potential innovators and new actors on the digital market due to 
the unclear status of software patentability is a high price to pay for 
the EU.</p>

<p>FSFE wants to highlight the legislative actions taken on national 
level in order to tackle this issue, in particular the decision of the 
German Parliament in 2013 to effectively limit the patenting of computer 
programs, as copyright protection is already available<a class="fn" id="fnref5" href="#fn5">5</a>. 
This decision was also welcomed and supported by German SME associations. 
Furthermore, several studies have shown that companies producing software 
do not deem patent protection as a useful mechanism spurring future 
inventive streams. On the contrary, companies find that software patents 
hinder the rate of innovation and lock-in the market in favor of few 
monopolistic companies.<a class="fn" id="fnref6" href="#fn6">6</a></p>

<p>FSFE asks the Commission to follow this example and propose a clear 
<strong>requirement that software solutions shall not be patented under any 
unclear terms</strong> implemented by the practice of the EPO, and to further 
strengthen copyright protection for software, so that <strong>no rights received 
under copyright will be devalued by third parties' patents covering 
software</strong> in “computer implemented inventions”.</p>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="recommendations">Recommendations</h3>

<p>As stated above, unharmonised sets of exceptions and limitations, 
technological protection measures, legal uncertainty in regard to text 
and data mining, and software patents are only few examples of how 
existing copyright law is hampering innovation, creativity, and the 
development of a digital single market for cultural goods. FSFE asks the 
Commission to take into account the issues highlighted in the resolution 
for copyright reform and approved by the European Parliament, but most 
importantly, to unleash the creative potential of Europe by taking an 
even bolder stand towards renewal of copyright legislation. In 
particular, FSFE asks the Commission:</p>

<ol>
<li>To <strong>uphold the principle of technological neutrality</strong>, 
so that the same rights will be available for everyone regardless of the 
technology applied. In order to eliminate unjustified differences between 
digital and analogue usage which causes unnecessary complexity for all 
involved parties, <strong>harmonised exceptions and limitations to copyright 
have to be equally applicable in both digital and analogue domains</strong>. 
This will ensure that all industry sectors can make the most of legitimately 
accessed works.</li>

<li>To further strengthen copyright protection of software against 
arbitrary patents granted by the EPO, so that software is excluded from 
patentability according to the most internationally recognised instruments. 
Companies should be able to uphold all legitimate rights obtained through 
copyright and be able to use software in accordance with these rights 
without the fear to infringe third parties' patents.</li>
</ol>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="right-to-tinker">Right to tinker</h2>

<p>The Commission should take a definitive stance towards the <strong>recognition 
of the “right to tinker”</strong>; that is, the right of owners of a computing 
device to replace or supplement the software in this device according to
their choice. This right is closely linked to the fundamental right to 
property enshrined in the Article 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights 
of the EU, i.e. everyone has the right to own, use, and dispose of his or 
her lawfully acquired possessions. The current trend towards ‘locking-in’ 
a device is alarming because it precludes innovators and companies from 
installing, developing and using the software of their choice on the 
hardware they own, thus precluding them from being in full control of 
their property. Some widely used technical protection measures make it 
technically impossible to install new software not ‘authorised’ by the 
hardware manufacturer. In addition, most hardware is sold with little or 
no information about its specifications, so that the purchaser is unable 
to inspect the acquired hardware. This situation is a major obstacle 
towards maximising the innovative potential in Europe because it 
fundamentally hinders creation of new goods and services based on 
existing technology.</p>

<p>The right to tinker constitutes an important incentive to create and 
innovate, and it <strong>allows businesses to be in full control of their 
infrastructure</strong>, i.e. the services and facilities necessary to conduct 
their business that are inevitably reliable on the hardware and software 
of their choice. It is important to ensure that hardware 
manufacturers (mostly located outside of Europe) do not place arbitrary 
restrictions on the owners of devices, i.e. on potential innovators and 
companies providing goods and services based on this hardware. It is 
important to ensure that European innovators are not only users of 
technology, but are able to develop new solutions based on existing 
technology they own.</p>

<p>In order to adequately safeguard this fundamental right to property, 
hardware manufacturers have to be required to provide the specifications 
of their products in order to enable the owner to use and develop 
software that is interoperable with their computing devices. Moreover, 
the copyright exceptions covering reverse engineering of software 
(articles 5(3) and 6 of directive 2009/24/EC) should also be clarified 
to provide more legal certainty for software developers to make 
interoperable software.</p>

<p>FSFE reasserts that software is, without any doubt, a major driver 
for the digital single market, digital innovation and digitisation of 
all European industries, and therefore it is crucial to attain a legal 
framework that prevents hardware vendors from placing any arbitrary, 
unnecessary and disproportionate restrictions on its use.</p>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="recommendations-1">Recommendations</h3>

<p>FSFE asks the Commission to recognise and safeguard the 
right to tinker in the spirit of Article 17 of the Charter of Fundamental 
Rights of the EU, so that businesses are able to control their 
infrastructure, and as an important incentive for innovation.</p>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="interoperability-and-standardisation">Interoperability and standardisation</h2>

<p>The Strategy recognises that, in order to provide support for new 
technologies, there is a need for a European approach in the 
standardisation. FSFE wants to stress that in order for Europe to achieve 
digital single market and be competitive on the global IT market, it is 
necessary to ensure that standards are not developed and applied 
nationally or regionally, but reflect the global nature of IT sector. 
Therefore, the solution that Europe needs is the implementation of 
standards that are <strong>open, minimalistic and implementable with Free Software.</strong> 
These standards will allow companies to harvest the innovative potential 
of global cooperation and give it back to the market, at the same time 
allowing the widest competition of goods and services. These standards 
are necessary for Free Software to operate and provide its benefits to 
the digital single market.</p>

<p>Hereby FSFE wants to reinstate that Free Software will also provide 
the necessary tools to unlock the innovative potential of software 
related services that constitute a larger share of potential revenue 
than the income generated through collecting software usage licence fees. 
To have a competitive market for this kind of services, both clients and 
providers need to be able to freely choose different business partners, 
and that requires a level of interoperability that only Free Software can 
provide. Europe needs a solution that encompasses the full potential of 
technology and community-based collaboration, that is Free Software, 
which allows service provision without any restrictions.</p>

<p>Consequently, Europe needs realistic and easily implementable solutions 
that have proved their longevity, but not at the expense of other 
competitors or through the market abuse.</p>

<p>In previous years, FSFE supported the Commission in the antitrust 
case about Microsoft, and their dominant position in the desktop 
operating system, including as a third party in the European Court of 
Justice (ECJ)<a class="fn" id="fnref7" href="#fn7">7</a>. Despite the 
success achieved by the Commission against Microsoft in that case, it 
took a considerable amount of time and effort. FSFE cannot provide such 
assistance every time a vendor abuses its position. In order to avoid such 
time-lengthy and costly consequences to achieve desirable interoperability 
ex-post, it is in the interest of the majority of stakeholders that the 
Commission maximises its efforts to avoid the possibility of vendor 
lock-in and anti-competitive behaviour on the digital market from the 
beginning, especially in such emerging areas as "Internet of Things" and 
the European Cloud initiative. To achieve that aim, FSFE asks the 
Commission to implement standards that are open, minimalistic and 
implementable with Free Software in order to avoid unnecessary 
complications that only the biggest industry players can afford to manage.</p>

<ul>
<li><strong>Open</strong> Standards will empower European industries to compete on the 
global market. Open Standards have already proven themselves: besides the 
obvious example of the Internet, it is worth mentioning that several of 
the biggest and most successful IT players, who have built their software 
model on either Free Software or proprietary equivalent, are based on 
Open Standards.</li>

<li>It is important to implement Open Standards that are <strong>minimalistic<a class="fn" id="fnref8" href="#fn1">8</a></strong> because this will enable the majority of European IT actors, 
that are SMEs, to adapt them, and most importantly, to understand them. 
Overcomplicated and lengthy standards developed outside of Europe will 
take extra time and resources to be efficiently implemented and 
understandable for European SMEs, the majority of which do not have such 
capacity to fully follow the complex specification of a standard. Simply 
trying to import and implement such standards will create extra burdens 
to the digitisation of European industries and prevents new actors from 
entering the market because companies are burdened by costly specifications 
or the need to invest in new infrastructure. Therefore, in order to 
digitalise industries cost efficiently, while at the same time ensuring 
the competitiveness and independence of European companies, the 
implemented standards have to be both open and minimalistic.</li>

<li><strong>Implementable with Free Software:</strong> Another worrisome point is the 
position that the Strategy takes on <strong>standard essential patents</strong> (SEPs), 
calling them "<em>an increasingly important feature in standardisation</em>" 
and "<em>an important element of the business model in terms of monetising 
investment in research and innovation</em>", while supporting the "<em>need 
for a balanced framework for negotiations between right holders and 
implementers of standard essential patents in order to ensure fair 
licensing conditions</em>"<a class="fn" id="fnref9" href="#fn1">9</a>. 
The problems caused by SEPs include a high possibility of vendor lock-in 
and anti-competitive behaviour, as SEPs can confer significant market 
power on their holders. Licensing under 'fair, reasonable and 
non-discriminatory' (FRAND) terms, but including a royalty-payment 
requirement, is often presented as a way to balance the interests of the 
market with those ofpatent owners. However royalty-based FRAND serve only 
the interests of a handful of the biggest companies - most often based 
outside of Europe - providing no benefits to the local European actors, 
the majority of which are SMEs. Furthermore, royalty-based FRAND licensing 
has been shown to be detrimental and incompatible with Free 
Software.<a class="fn" id="fnref10" href="#fn1">10</a> This is a major 
obstacle for achieving the widest competition of goods and services on 
the digital market, as Free Software actors should be able to compete on 
the same conditions as their proprietary counterparts. Consequently, 
there are no legitimate reasons to uphold such practices 
as SEPs and royalty-based FRAND.</li>
</ul>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="recommendations-2">Recommendations</h3>

<p>FSFE asks the Commission to use the whole potential of <strong>Open 
Standards that are minimalistic and implementable with Free Software</strong> 
and apply them to "cloud", big data and the "Internet of Things". It is 
important to avoid a situation of standards fragmentation and vendor 
lock-in from the beginning. As the idea of interoperability is essential 
to the concept of Free Software, the situation of vendor lock-in by using 
Free Software is eliminated.</p>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="free-flow-of-data-between-systems-and-services">Free flow of data 
between systems and services</h2>

<h3 id="portability-of-data">Portability of data</h3>

<p>The Strategy highlights the lack of open and interoperable systems 
and services, and of data portability. In addition, the Strategy 
acknowledges the lack of clarity over rights to use data, and that the 
restrictions to free movement of data on grounds other than privacy are 
often not addressed. According to the Commission, the portability of 
data between different services and service providers is important in 
order to avoid private and commercial users, and their data, from being 
locked into a particular provider.<a class="fn" id="fnref11" href="#fn11">11</a>

<p>In regard to this point, FSFE supports decentralised systems of 
computing where the data storage is shared between several entities 
(e.g. 'peer-to-peer' systems or distributed systems), as this solution 
shares the burden of maintaining the network and distributing data in 
the most reliable and secure way. In this context, the failure of one 
entity would not entail the complete disturbance of the whole system or 
loss of all data. This solution will most efficiently provide relief to 
the concerns of users and businesses relating to security, highlighted 
in the Strategy. Also, because such decentralised system with shared 
maintenance is low-cost, it will not require businesses to invest in 
costly specifications or new infrastructure. This will result in a more 
efficient and widespread adoption of computing solutions across different 
industries.</p>

<p>As highlighted in the Strategy, users and businesses need to be able 
to extract their data from the service at any time without experiencing 
lock-in or being stuck in a specific technical solution. Open standards 
for formats and protocols are necessary to guarantee this. However, 
without the source code of the programs used to deal with user data, 
this is impractical. This is why programs available to exploit exported 
data should be available under a Free Software License so that data can 
be transferred to a different provider without being lost.</p>

<p>Hereby, FSFE wants to highlight the ongoing legal reform in France 
derived from the need to safeguard users' right to extract their data 
from any content provider and import it to another one in an open 
standard format<a class="fn" id="fnref12" href="#fn12">12</a>. FSFE asks 
the Commission to follow this example and safeguard the aforementioned 
<strong>right to extract data in an Open Standard format</strong>, as this provision will 
ensure the widest competition between different service providers on the 
digital market based on the free flow of data.</p>

<h3 id="open-science">Open Science</h3>

<p>Another point acknowledged by the Commission is access to public data 
that is said to help drive innovation<a class="fn" id="fnref13" href="#fn13">13</a>. 
It is important to include software developed with public funds into the 
list of public data that needs to be widely accessible, in order to 
effectively boost innovation on the digital market. Research that has 
been paid for with taxpayers' money should be made publicly available 
in order for innovators to build on it and return better goods and 
services to the market.</p>

<p>FSFE wants to reinstate the importance of Free Software to innovation 
and development of online services in the fast-paced IT market, and asks 
the Commission to include a specific requirement for <strong>all publicly 
funded software to be released as Free Software</strong>. This requirement will 
also enhance the exchange of knowledge and European research results, as 
Free Software is based on the ability to use, study, share and improve 
software according to the needs of users, businesses and public bodies 
themselves.</p>

<p>FSFE wants to stress that Free Software is the major component and 
driver for innovation in digital age. Furthermore, it is noteworthy to 
highlight that the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN), an 
institution that is at the forefront of scientific and technological 
advancement, is basing its infrastructure on Free Software and has a long 
tradition of Open Access. This practice should be encouraged and promoted 
by public institutions in order to unleash the potential of the planned 
"European Open Science Cloud" in the EU.</p>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="recommendations-3">Recommendations</h3>

<p>In order to achieve the greatest interoperability between systems and 
services, FSFE asks the Commission to:</p>

<ol>
<li><strong>Support decentralised solutions to the data portability based on Free 
Software</strong> that will provide relief to the data security concerns, and 
require no extra maintenance costs from SMEs in order to be implemented.</li>

<li>Ensure everyone's <strong>right to extract data in an Open Standard format</strong> to 
ensure data portability and to avoid vendor lock-in.</li>

<li>Require that <strong>all publicly funded software to be released as 
Free Software</strong> and ensure that the <strong>European Cloud initiative, including the 
European Open Science Cloud, is based on Free Software</strong>.</li>
</ol>

<p>This will ensure the greatest variety and competition of goods and 
services on the market as it will induce businesses to develop solutions 
based on public data for both the public and private sector.</p>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="e-government-and-inclusive-e-society">e-Government and inclusive e-Society</h2>

<h3 id="european-interoperability-framework">European Interoperability Framework</h3>

<p>The Strategy highlights the need to do more in order to modernise 
public administrations, achieve cross-border interoperability, and 
facilitate easy interaction with citizens<a class="fn" id="fnref14" href="#fn14">14</a>. 
Here, FSFE wants to reinstate the attempt of European Interopreability 
Framework (EIF) to include more Free Software and Open Standards solutions 
in the public sector in the EU by encouraging European public 
administrations to prefer "open specifications" when establishing public 
services. In addition EIF ISA2 proposal promotes the principle of "openness" 
and the reuse of software solutions<a class="fn" id="fnref15" href="#fn15">15</a>. 
Member states and the EU are called to step up joint efforts to avoid market 
fragmentation and ensure cross-border or cross-sector interoperability 
in the implementation of legislation, and to promote commonly agreed ICT 
solutions<a class="fn" id="fnref16" href="#fn16">16</a>.</p>

<p>It is noteworthy that several member states have implemented Free 
Software solutions for public administrations in their national 
legislations (e.g. the UK Government ICT Strategy promotes procuring 
Free Software solutions for governmental infrastructure<a class="fn" id="fnref17" href="#fn17">17</a>, 
and the Italian government's "Guidelines on comparative evaluation [of 
software]" require public administrations to choose Free Software by 
default<a class="fn" id="fnref18" href="#fn18">18</a>). FSFE is in strong 
favour of such national developments and asks the Commission to support 
the principle of &quot;openness&quot; in public services by prioritising 
Free Software in order to ensure that public administrations are 
interconnected through reusable and distributable solutions.</p>

<p>According to the Commission's plans, the EIF is to be revised and 
extended, in particular with other instruments to be shared by national 
administrations such as the European Interoperability Reference 
Architecture (EIRA)<a class="fn" id="fnref19" href="#fn19">19</a>, a 
metamodel for building interoperable e-Government systems that is based 
on "open standard". FSFE welcomes the further expansion of the 'best 
practices', however, we ask the Commission to follow the example of 
aforementioned member states and to <strong>uphold and strengthen the 
promotion of Free Software in the public sector</strong> when revising 
the EIF.</p>

<p>Free Software as the tool for the greatest transparency and 
interoperability of cross-border public services will prevent 
unnecessary architectural complexity and fragmentation across public ICT 
solutions. Free Software should not only be treated as an alternative to 
the proprietary solutions in the EIF, but instead should be further 
encouraged and prioritised as a means for boosted innovation and a basis 
for emerging new services. Achieving the utmost interoperability by 
solely applying "open standards" is not enough. Only once these standards 
are <strong>open, minimalistic and implementable with Free Software</strong>, can they be 
easily adapted by the majority of stakeholders.</p>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="recommendations-4">Recommendations</h3>

<p>In order to achieve the easiest way to interact with public 
administrations, citizens and businesses have to be able to choose the 
software of their choice. Choosing Open Standards for software, data, 
and document formats in public ICT solutions is the best way to achieve 
the widest digital participation and an inclusive e-society because it 
avoids burdensome obstacles and imposed extra-costs to effectively 
interact with and within the public sector. However, in order to use the 
potential of Open Standards to the widest extent, these standards need 
to be minimalistic and implementable with Free Software, as the latter 
will help to achieve the biggest cross-border interoperability for 
communication with the public sector in member states. Therefore, FSFE 
asks the Commission to explicitly include the requirement to <strong>prioritise 
Free Software in public procurement as the most favourable ICT solution.</strong></p>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="digital-skills">Digital skills</h2>

<p>The Strategy highlights the shortage of ICT professionals and the 
urgent need to address the lack of essential digital skills. Furthermore, 
the Draft Report "New priorities for European cooperation in education 
and training" acknowledges the importance of creation of open digital 
educational resources and high quality educational software to address 
the need to boost digital skills<a class="fn" id="fnref20" href="#fn16">20</a>.</p>

<p>FSFE believes that Free Software is the solution to the pressing need 
to increase the level of ICT professionalism in Europe and thus asks the 
Commission to support the use of Free Software in schools and educational 
institutions. As mentioned above, Free Software is based on principles 
that everyone can use software and run it for any purpose, study how it 
works and adapt it to the needs, share it with others, and improve it if 
necessary. These principles promote independent thinking, adaptability to 
the concrete needs of users, and sharing the knowledge within the community.</p>

<p>Free Software promotes thinking and using a program outside of a 
concrete application, i.e. the capability to adapt to any software: an 
essential skill in the fast-paced digital environment. Due to its nature, 
Free Software is the best solution for promoting the widest digitisation 
of all sectors in society - from industry to education - as it is easy 
to administer, redistribute, modify and adapt to specific needs without 
such obstacles as licencing fees or additional costly software maintenance 
agreements.</p>

<p>It is important to treat every user of technology as a potential 
innovator and developer, and the easiest way to empower industries is to 
promote the use of Free Software across all sectors.</p>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="recommendations-5">Recommendations</h3>

<p>FSFE asks the Commission to <strong>promote the use of Free Software in 
schools and other public educational institutions</strong> as Free Software will 
enable the development of important technical and digital skills with the 
necessary flexibility to adapt to the concrete needs of a particular 
educational institution at a low cost. European educational system should 
be aimed at empowering students by teaching them core concepts, and treat 
them as potential innovators by encouraging tinkering, instead of training 
them to use specific piece of software and to stay solely as "consumers".</p>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>
<ol>
	<li id="fn1">Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, A Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe", COM(2015)192 p. 7.<a href="#fnref1">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn2">European Parliament resolution of 9 July 2015 on the implementation of Directive 2001/29/EC, 2014/2256(INI).<a href="#fnref2">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn3">European Patent Office, <a href="http://www.epo.org/about-us/annual-reports-statistics/statistics/granted-patents.html">"European patents granted 2005-2015 by field of technology"</a>.<a href="#fnref3">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn4">FFII, <a href="http://swpat.ffii.org/int/intro/index.en.html">"Software patents in Europe"</a>.<a href="#fnref4">↩</a></li> Last accessed on 29.10.2015. 
	<li id="fn5">German Bundestag, Motion Proposed by the Parliamentary Groups of the CDU/CSU, SPD, FDP and BÜNDNIS 90/DIE GRÜNEN "Securing Competition and Innovation Dynamics in the Software Sector — Effectively Limiting the Granting of Patents on Computer Programs", Drucksache 17/13086, 16.04.2013, adopted in Bundestag on 7.05.2013, <a href="http://bikttest.datendunst.it/1713086_en.pdf">unofficial translation to English</a><a href="#fnref5">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn6">Reinier Bakels et al, “Study of the effects of allowing patent claims for computer-implemented inventions. Final Report and Recommendations”, EC-DG Information Society, UNU-MERIT, Study for the European Commission, 2008.<a href="#fnref6">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn7">ECJ, Microsoft Corp. v European Commission, T-167/08, 27.06.2012.<a href="#fnref7">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn8">Bernhard Reiter, "The minimal principle: because being an open standard is not enough", 27.02.2014. Available <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/minimalisticstandards.en.html">here</a>.<a href="#fnref8">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn9">COM(2015)192 p. 15.<a href="#fnref9">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn10">Ian Mitchell, Stephen Mason, "Compatibility Of The Licensing Of Embedded Patents With Open Source Licensing Terms", IFOSSLR, 2011.<a href="#fnref10">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn11"><a href="http://ec.europa.eu/priorities/digital-single-market/docs/dsm-swd_en.pdf">A Digital Single Market Strategy for Europe - Analysis and Evidence</a>, SWD(2015)100 final, 6.05.2015, p. 65.<a href="#fnref11">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn12">Conseil National du Numérique, Projet de loi pour une République numérique, <a href="https://www.republique-numerique.fr/consultations/projet-de-loi-numerique/consultation/consultation/opinions/section-2-portabilite-des-donnees/article-12-portabilite-des-donnees/versions/consacrer-un-droit-effectif-a-la-portabilite">Article 12 - Portabilité des données</a>, 26.09.2015.<a href="#fnref12">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn13">COM(2015)192 p. 15.<a href="#fnref13">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn14">COM(2015)192 p. 16.<a href="#fnref14">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn15">Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for European public administrations, businesses and citizens (ISA2) Interoperability as a means for modernising the public sector, COM(2014)367 final, 26.06.2015, p. 5.<a href="#fnref15">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn16">COM(2014)367 final, recital 19.<a href="#fnref16">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn17">Cabinet Office, <a href="https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/85968/uk-government-government-ict-strategy_0.pdf">"Government ICT Strategy"</a>, 2011.<a href="#fnref17">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn18">Italian Digital Agency, <a href="http://www.agid.gov.it/sites/default/files/linee_guida/circolare_agid_63-2013_linee_guida_art_68_del_cad_ver_13_b.pdf">"Codice dell’Amministrazione digitale"</a>, 193/2013DIG, 6.12.2013.<a href="#fnref18">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn19">SWD(2015)100 final, p. 68.<a href="#fnref19">↩</a></li>
	<li id="fn20">Draft 2015 Joint Report of the Council and the Commission on the implementation of the Strategic framework for European cooperation in education and training (ET2020), New priorities for European cooperation in education and training, COM(2015)408 final, SWD(2015)161 final, 28.08.2015.<a href="#fnref20">↩</a></li>
</ol>

</p>
</body>

<sidebar promo="our-work">
	<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
		<li><a href="#copyright-reform">Copyright reform</a></li>
		<li><a href="#right-to-tinker">Right to tinker</a></li>
		<li><a href="#interoperability-and-standardisation">Interoperability and standardisation</a></li>
		<li><a href="#free-flow-of-data-between-systems-and-services">Free flow of data between systems and services</a></li>
		<li><a href="#e-government-and-inclusive-e-society">e-Government and inclusive e-Society</a></li>
		<li><a href="#digital-skills">Digital skills</a></li>
	</ul>
	<h2>Related links</h2>
	<a href="/activities/policy/eu/20151029-fsfe-dsm-comments.pdf">Comments on the Digital Single Market strategy (pdf)</a>
</sidebar>

<tags>
  <tag content="Digital Single Market">DigitalSingleMarket</tag>
  <tag Content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="European Commission">EuropeanCommission</tag>
  <tag content="Public Administration">PublicAdministration</tag>
</tags>

</html>
