<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Our acitvities in the European Union - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Activities</a></p>
    <h1>Activities in the European Union</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
      	Our involvement in the European Union policy goes back to 2001,
      	when FSFE became an interested third-party in the Commission's
      	antitrust case against Microsoft. Since then, we have kept
      	on promoting Free Software by focusing on fundamental principles,
      	such as fair competition, being respected.
      </p>
    </div>
    <h2>Ongoing activities</h2>
    
    <h3>Internal use of Open Standards and Free Software in the EU's institutions</h3>    
    <p>
		 The FSFE is actively participating to the update of the European Commission's Open Source Strategy. As a public body, the EC not only uses but also participates in the development of several software programs. In order to encourage the EC to take advantage of Free Software, the FSFE wrote a <a href="/activities/policy/eu/20141215.FSFE.EC_OSS_Strategy.html">white paper</a> stating that the EC should: </p> 
    
    <h3>EU Member States' Policies overview: Free Software and Open Standards</h3>
    <p>
    	Many countries in Europe have policies, laws or
	recommendations concerning Free Software and Open
	Standards. In collaboration with the Free Software
	community, we are preparing a comprehensive overview of
	these policies. We want to provide both activists and
	policy makers with a tool to compare the approaches that
	exist in different countries, and to learn from both good
	and less good practices. This is a work still in progress so please use <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/EU%20Policies%20overview%3A%20Free%20Software%20and%20Open%20Standards">the dedicated wiki</a>.
</p>    
    
    <ul>
		<li>contribute to external Free Software;</li>
		<li>ditribute software developed by or for the European Commission as Free Software.</li>
	</ul> 
		
	<!-- FIXME 
    <p>
      FSFE is also pushing for <a href="/activities/os/">Open Standards</a>, which
      are key to interoperability and as such FSFE promotes their adoption, especially through the <a href="/news/2009/news-20091127-01.en.html">revision of the European Interoperability Framework</a>. 
    </p> -->
    
    <h3>Other ongoing activities</h3>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/campaigns/horizon2020/horizon2020.en.html">Horizon 2020</a></li>
    </ul>
    
    <h2>What we achieved</h2>
    <h3>EU Browser case</h3>
      <p>
        Free Software Foundation Europe supported the European Commission's
        antitrust investigation against Microsoft as an interested third party.
        The investigation began on January 16th 2009 when the European
        Commission DG Competition reported that it had issued a statement of
        objections regarding Microsoft's abuse of web standards and the tying of
        Internet Explorer (IE) to the Windows Operating System product family.
        It is based on a complaint submitted by Opera, an European company
        involved in web browser development, which FSFE publicly supported in
        2007.
      </p>
      <p>
		On December 2009 the European Commission ruled in favor of competing browsers. Consequently, Microsoft had the obligation to display a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BrowserChoice.eu">choice screen</a> to all Internet Explorer user living in the European Union until December 2014. Microsoft didn't complied with its obligation by removing the pop-up screen in February 2011. Consequently the European Commision fined Microsoft 561 millions euros in March 2013.
      </p>
   
    <h3>European Commission vs Microsoft: Interoperability Case</h3>
    
    <p>
      <a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/timeline.html">Between 2001 and 2012</a> the FSFE took part as a third-party in the European Commission's investigations towards Microsoft. The company was suspected of abuse of its dominant position in relation with interoperability.
    </p>
    <p>In 2004, the EC took its final decision and ordered Microsoft to offer the information necessary for competing software to provide interoberability. As Microsoft didn't complied with the Commission's requirements until October 2007, the EC fined microsoft €899 million in 2008. The <a href="/news/2012/news-20120627-01.html">case ended in 2012</a> when the European Court of Justice upheld this record fine.</p>
    
    <h3>Other achievements</h3>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/activities/policy/fp7/fp7.en.html">7th EC Framework Programme</a></li>
      <li><a href="/campaigns/ipred2/ipred2.en.html">IPRED 2 - Criminalisation of copyright and trademark infringement</a></li>
      <li><a href="/campaigns/self/self.en.html">SELF (Science, Education and Learning in Freedom)</a></li>
      <li><a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.en.html">FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</a> (2001-2007)</li>
      <li><a href="/activities/policy/fp6/fp6.en.html">6th EC Framework Programme</a> (2002)</li>
    </ul>
      
   
    <h2>Related news</h2>
   
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091216-01.html">2009/12/16: FSFE welcomes greater user choice in browsers, warns that Free Software is excluded from interoperability</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091127-01.html">2009/11/27: EC caves in to proprietary lobbyists on interoperability</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091109-02.html">2009/11/09: FSFE in battle for European interoperability
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091008-01.html">2009/10/08: Microsoft settlement leaves Free Software in the cold
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091006-01.html">2009/10/06: Microsoft antitrust case: FSFE offers analysis to European Commission
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20090728-01.html">2009/07/28: EU browser case: FSFE says details of settlement will be crucial
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20090227-01.html">2009/02/27: FSFE engages in the EU browser case
</a></li>
   </ul>
   
   <h2>Documents and Publications</h2> 

    <ul>
	<li><p><strong><a href="/activities/policy/eu/20141215.FSFE.EC_OSS_Strategy.en.html">FSFE's white paper</a></strong><br/> to the European Commission<a href="http://ec.europa.eu/competition/consultations/2011_collective_redress/index_en.html">in the Framework of the Open Source Strategy</a></p></li>
    <li><p><strong><a href="20110429.CollectiveRedress.Response.FSFE.pdf">FSFE's contribution on collective redress (2011-04-30)</a></strong><br/> to the European Commission's <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/competition/consultations/2011_collective_redress/index_en.html">public consultation</a> "Towards a coherent European approach to collective redress". 
    </p></li> 
     <li><p><strong><a href="20110418.ProcurementConsultation.FSFE.response.pdf">FSFE's contribution on public procurement of Free Software (2011-04-18)</a></strong><br/> to the European Commission's <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/publicprocurement/modernising_rules/consultations/index_en.htm">public consultation</a> on "modernisation of EU public procurement policy". 
    </p></li> 
    <li><p><strong><a href="20100930-NetNeutrality.Consultation.pdf">FSFE's submission on Net Neutrality (2010-09-30)</a></strong><br/> to the European Commission's <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/policy/ecomm/library/public_consult//net_neutrality/index_en.htm">public consultation</a> on "open internet and net neutrality". 
    </p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/activities/os/ps.en.html">Analysis on balance: Standardisation and Patents</a></b> (2008-12-02)<br /> 
      Following up on the "<a href="http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/newsroom/cf/itemshortdetail.cfm?item_id=3371">IPR in ICT Standardisation</a>" Workshop two weeks ago in Brussels, FSFE president <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> analysed the conflicts between patents and standards. The resulting paper is about the most harmful effects of patents on standards, the effectiveness of current remedies, and potential future remedies.
    </p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/documents/eur5greve.en.html">Free Software in Europe - European perspectives and work of the FSF
      Europe</a></b> (2003-05-20)<br /> 
      An article explaining the large-scale beneficial aspects of Free Software
      in multiple areas and how Europe and the European countries can benefit
      from Free Software.
      (<a href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/pdf/europe/spring2003/EU5%20Georg%20Gree%20ATL-replace.pdf">Published</a> 
      in the
      <a href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/spring2003/eu_spring2003_contents.asp">Spring 2003</a> 
      issue of the
      <a href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/europe_intro.shtml">Public Service Review - European Union</a> 
      with a foreword by Romano Prodi)
    </p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/activities/policy/fp6/lafis.en.html">FP6 EOI: LAFIS - LAying the Foundations for the Information
      Society</a></b> (2002-06-04)<br /></p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/activities/policy/fp6/focal.en.html">FP6 EOI: FOCAL - FOcussing Competence for Advantages of
      Liberty</a></b> (2002-06-04)<br /></p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/activities/policy/fp6/recommendation.en.html">Recommendation by the FSFE and supporting parties</a></b> (2002-04-30)<br /> 
      for the <a href="/activities/policy/fp6/fp6.en.html">6th framework programme</a> 
    </p></li> 
</ul> 

</body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-01-14 14:08:10 +0100 (jeu. 14 janv. 2010) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
