<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Freedom to compete: Fixing software procurement</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
    <div class="compare">
  
      <h1>Freedom to compete: Fixing software procurement</h1>

      <p>On Tuesday December 7, we issued a <a href="/news/2010/news-20101207-01.en.html">press release</a> about a contract
      awarded by the European Commission, under which the EC and other
      European institutions will spend up to 189 million Euro on proprietary
      software and related services. We are of the view that in issuing this
      contract, the EC has once more failed to live up to its own guidelines
      and recommendations about the use of Free Software and Open Standards,
      and has missed an opportunity to open up software procurement to
      competition from Free Software companies.</p>

      <p>The contract in question, called SACHA II, is the responsibility of
      the EC's Directorate-General for Informatics (DIGIT for short). A few
      days after our press release, we received a written reply from Mr
      Francisco García Moran, the head of DIGIT.</p>

      <p>We would like to thank Mr García Moran for replying to our concerns in
      detail. He requested that we publish his reply, which we are glad to
      do. <a href="/activities/policy/eu/ECletter.20101210.en.pdf">Here</a> is the original letter we received.</p>

<h2>The EC's reply does nothing to allay our concerns</h2>

      <p>Unfortunately, the EC's reply neither shows our stance to be
      wrong, nor does it allay our criticism. This is why we would like to
      return some questions to Mr García Moran. We appreciate the
      opportunity to enter into a detailed discussion of the EC's software
      strategy and its software procurement practices, and hope for a
      constructive dialogue.</p>

      <p>
      We note that DIGIT's reply does not answer our criticism regarding
      the mismatch between the Commission's own guidelines and
      recommendations (as referred to in the <a href="http://www.fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20101207-01.en.html">press release</a>), and the
      massive acquisition of licenses for proprietary software.</p>
      
      <p>
      This criticism applies to both the recent SACHA II contract, as
      well as the <a href="http://ted.europa.eu/udl?uri=TED:NOTICE:71324-2008:TEXT:EN:HTML&amp;tabId=1">framework contract with Fujitsu-Siemens</a> for the
      provision of Microsoft products concluded on January 10, 2008.</p>
      
      <p>
      We would like to see the European Commission back up its public
      rhetoric regarding Free Software, Open Standards and interoperability
      with its own actions. This would require DIGIT to rethink some
      procurement practices in order to open up public software procurement
      to competition.</p>

	      
     <div class="clear">

	<h3 class="grid-40 left">
EC letter from Dec 10th, 2010 </h3>
	    
	<h3 class="grid-60 right">FSFE's comments
	</h3>
	  </div> 
	      
      <div class="clear">

	<p class="grid-40 left">
	      
	      (1) The press release does not mention the fact that the contract you refer to is the
	result of an open call for tenders awarded on the basis of the highest quality/price
	ratio. This is a major omission in a press release which, on the one hand, says that
      the Commission should avoid discrimination and open up public procurement to
      competition, and, on the other, accuses the Commission of not doing enough to
      keep its costs low and to spend the taxpayers' money in the best possible way.
	    </p>
	    
	<p class="grid-60 right">
	      
      It is only natural to assume that a responsible public administration
      such as the EC would not spend such sums without an open call for
      tender. We did not consider it necessary to highlight something that
      should be self-evident.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right">
      Our criticism is directed at the way in which this call for tender
      was designed, and at the underlying lack of a coordinated effort
      to make greater use of Free Software and Open Standards on the
      part of DIGIT.</p>
	  </div>

      <div class="clear even">
      
	<p class="grid-40 left even">
      (2) The first sentence of your press release ("77ze Commission will spend EUR 189
	million on proprietary software over the next six years'") is totally misleading for
	the following reasons:
      <br /><br /><!--i know that's ugly but the only way to fix quickly i could find-->
      (a) Awarded amount. The sentence implies that the Commission has awarded
      the total amount of EUR 189 million for itself, without mentioning the fact
      that the contract in question also covers the needs of 36 other EU
      Institutions, Agencies and other Bodies. The amount awarded for the
      Commission's own needs is EUR 67.4 million (see paragraph VI.2 of the
      contract notice).
	    </p>

	<p class="grid-60 right even">
      We understand that the institutions for which software and services
      will be provided are funded by European Union budgets, and that they
      will obtain software and services through the SACHA II contract. The
      contract is signed by the European Commission, and the money will come
      out of the taxpayers' purse. 
    </p>
	  </div>

      <div class="clear">
      
	<p class="grid-40 left">
      (b) Commitment to spend. The Commission has not committed itself to spend
      the whole of this amount. In the case of a framework contract (or
      "framework agreement") such as this one, the amount mentioned in the
      award notice corresponds to the maximum budgetary ceiling which can be
      used over the entire duration of the contract (including all possible
      renewals). In order to avoid new administrative procedures, such
      maximum budgetary ceilings contain provisions for various contingencies
      which could arise during or at the end of the contract.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right">
      While this is a maximum budget, it is not at all uncommon for public
      administrations to reach such ceilings in their procurement contracts.
    </p>
    
	    <p class="grid-60 right">
      In order to provide orientation to the concerned public, would DIGIT
      be able to provide an indication of the percentage of the total final
      value which has been spent under the Commission's current contract
      with Fujitsu (2008/S 53-071324) to provide Microsoft software products
      and licenses?</p>
	</div>

      <div class="clear even">
	<p class="grid-40 left even">
      (c) Duration. The duration of the contract in question for acquisitions is two
	    years, which may (but do not have to) be renewed up to two times for a
	    period of one year each. The total duration is therefore four (not six) years.
	  The two additional years only cover maintenance of already acquired
	  licences.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right even">
      It follows that the total duration of the contract is six years,
      during which EUR 189 million in public funds may be spent.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right even">
      Is the EC going to change its approach to software procurement after
      the initial two years, so that European Free Software SMEs will have
      an easier time bidding for contracts with the European institutions?
      If that is the case, we will be very glad to have been proved wrong
      here. If not, our criticism stands.</p>
	  </div>

      <div class="clear">
      
	<p class="grid-40 left">(d) Type of software covered. Contrary to your statement, the contract in
      question does not only cover the acquisition of proprietary software, but
      also of open source software (OSS) and of OSS-related services, such as
      high-level support of OSS products, for example from Red Hat, Atlassian,
      Balsamiq Studios, Adaptavist and others.
	</p>
      
	<p class="grid-60 right">
      We have made no such statement. FSFE's press release explicitly
      states that the institutions covered will "acquire a wide range of
      mostly proprietary software".</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right">
      Furthermore there seems to be some confusion on DIGIT's part regarding
      what, exactly, is Free Software. Most of Red Hat's products indeed
      fulfil the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">Free Software definition</a>. Atlassian's products are
      <a href="http://www.atlassian.com/about/licensing/license.jsp">distributed under proprietary licenses</a>, as are <a href="http://balsamiq.com/images/BalsamiqEula.pdf">those
      by Balsamiq</a>. FSFE will
      be honoured to assist DIGIT in closing any possible gaps that may
      exist in the understanding of Free Software licenses.</p>

      </div>

      <div class="clear even">
      
	<p class="grid-40 left even">(3) You argue that the Commission should have come up with a strategy to take
      advantage of Free Software. I take this opportunity to inform you that the
      Commission has actually had an OSS strategy since 2001. A summary of the last
      version of this strategy is available at DIGIT'S website on the EUROPA portal1. A
      new version is in its final draft phase and will be published very soon. As a result
      of this strategy, more than 250 OSS products pertaining to all the categories
      managed by DIGIT are already in use at the Commission. For the sake of
      completeness, it may be worth mentioning some additional examples of
      achievements in this area, which very few (if any) public administrations in the
      world can match:</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right even">
      The fact that the European Commission uses Free Software is not in
      doubt. Nor is it a special achievement. At the end of 2008, the
      consultancy <a href="http://www.gartner.com/it/page.jsp?id=801412">Gartner expected 100% of businesses to use at least some
      Free Software by the end of 2009</a>.</p>
	      
	<p class="grid-60 right even">
      The EC-backed <a href="http://www.flosspols.org/deliverables/D03HTML/FLOSSPOLS-D03%20local%20governments%20survey%20reportFINAL.html">FLOSSPOLS study found that 78% of public administrations
      were using at least some Free Software</a> already in 2004/5.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right even">
      At the same time, the EC and the other institutions included in this
      contract continue to spend substantial amounts of money on proprietary
      software, as exemplified both by SACHA II and the separate framework
      contract for the provision of Microsoft products and licenses,
      concluded January 10, 2008. This casts some doubt on the effectiveness
      of the EC's strategy.
	</p>
    
      </div>

      <div class="clear">
      
	<p class="grid-40 left">
      (a)The European Commission runs IT solutions on more than 350 Linux
      servers.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right">
      We would like to ask the Commission about the total number of
      servers run by the European Commission and the other institutions
      covered by the SACHA II contract, and about the percentage of
      these servers that use Free Software operating systems such as
      GNU/Linux or BSD systems.</p>
	</div>

      <div class="clear">

	<p class="grid-40 left">
      (b) DIGIT'S Data Centre manages more than 800 OSS web servers.</p>

	<p class="grid-60 right">
      We would be interested to know how many web servers the European
      Commission and the other institutions covered by the SACHA II contract
      are operating; which software they use; and what percentage of these
      web servers actually are Free Software.</p>

	<p class="grid-40 left">
      [...]</p>
	</div>


      <div class="clear even">
	<p class="grid-40 left even">(h) The European Commission also manages three important public websites,
	also entirely powered by OSS software: www.osor.eu (e-govemment
	related open source observatory and repository), www.semic.eu (semantic
      assets exchange centre) and www.epractice.eu (community of e-
      Govemment, e-Inclusion and e-Health)
    </p>

    <div class="grid-60 right even">
        <p>
      We are fully aware of these websites, and appreciate their
      usefulness to many European public bodies. However, we regret that
      the Commission is not making greater efforts towards availing
      itself of the advantages of Free Software and Open Standards when
      it comes to its internal IT infrastructure. Such efforts would
      greatly help to increase interoperability, transparency and
      competition; they would enable a greater number of European SMEs
      to provide services to the Commission; and they would be likely to
      reduce the Commission's IT costs. Without decisive steps in this
      direction, the Commission's own guidelines and recommendations would
      ultimately be futile.</p>

      <p>
      The SACHA II call for tender was designed in a way that made it
      very hard, if not impossible, for Free Software companies
      to offer their products and services:</p>

      <p>
      The call for tender includes a long list of specific products, rather
      than a set of functional specifications. While formulations such as</p>
	      
	<blockquote>
	  <p>Product names and trademarks: Whenever the tendering
	  specifications mention a specific product name or trademark
	  and a sufficiently precise and fully intelligible description
	  is not possible, such mention should be understood as
	  referring to that product or its equivalent.  (SACHA II <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/informatics/procurement/calls_docs/2009029/2009029_annex6.pdf]">Annex
	  6</a> : 5.1.4.)</p>
	</blockquote>

        <p>
      may or may not satisfy the letter of the law, they are certainly not
      conducive to competitive bidding by a large number of providers of
      different programs.  This issue was at the heart of the European
      Commission's infringement proceedings against a number of Member
      States regarding discriminatory specifications in calls for tender
      specifying "Intel or equivalent" processors (see <a href="http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=IP/04/1210&amp;format=HTML&amp;aged=0&amp;language=EN&amp;guiLanguage=en">Press release
      IP/04/1210</a>, October 13, 2004)</p>

  <p>
      <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/informatics/procurement/calls_docs/2009029/2009029_annex4.pdf">Annex 4</a> of the tendering specifications
      lists 251 named software products (not counting different varieties of
      those products). We are surprised that DIGIT found itself unable to
      provide a "sufficiently precise and fully intelligible description"
      for any of these products without resorting to product names and
      trademarks.</p>

      <p>
      DIGIT issued a comprehensive call for tender for a very large and
      diverse set of programs. If the Commission had truly wanted to acquire
      Free Software and related services, an appropriate approach would have
      been to tender a number of smaller, more specific contracts. European
      SMEs would have found it much easier to bid for such contracts.</p>

      <p>
      We would appreciate if the European Commission could inform us
      how spending under the SACHA II contract will be allotted among the
      different software products and services listed in the the call for
      tender. Which percentage of spending under this contract will go
      towards the purchase of Free Software and related services?</p>

      <p>
      Would the Commission also be able to inform us how many bids were
      received in total? This would be an interesting indication of the
      number of companies who felt that they were in a position to
      successfully bid for this contract.</p>
  </div>
	  </div>

      <div class="clear">
	<p class="grid-40 left">(4) Your press release assumes that proprietary software is, by definition, unable to be
	interoperable or to implement standards. This is simply not true. Proprietary
	software can implement standards as much as OSS. To the best of my knowledge,
      the Commission's corporate IT infrastructure already supports all major IT
      standards, be it with proprietary software and/or OSS. Should you be aware of any
      major IT standard not currently supported by the Commission's infrastructure, I
      would be obliged if you could let me know about it, so that I can take appropriate
      measures.
	    </p>

	<div class="grid-60 right">
            <p>
      Our press release assumes no such thing. FSFE maintains that <a href="/activities/os/def.en.html">Open
      Standards</a> can be implemented
      in both Free and proprietary software. Open Standards, which do not
      depend on any particular vendor, and which can be implemented in any
      software model, offer freedom from vendor lock-in and open up the
      software market to innovation and competition.</p>

      <p>
      We very much appreciate your request for input, and will avail
      ourselves of this opportunity whenever necessary.</p>

      <p>
      The important question is rather whether European institutions are
      accessible to citizens regardless of the type of software they
      choose to use. A notable failing, for example, is the fact that
      webcasts from the European Parliament cannot to our knowledge
      currently be viewed using a GNU/Linux operating system.  This is a
      major impediment to the participation and involvement of citizens
      in the EU's decision making process. We would welcome DIGIT's help
      in removing this obstacle to democratic participation.</p> 

      <p>
      We would also note that the Commission maintains a preference for
      proprietary document formats, and staff are still unable to receive
      documents in .odf formats without going through central translation,
      despite this having been established as a formal ISO standard.
  </p></div>
	  </div>

      <div class="clear even">
	<p class="grid-40 left even">(5) This procurement procedure is totally unrelated to the ongoing revision of the
	European Interoperability Framework. Concerning this point, I should simply like
	to remind that the Commission has committed itself to adopting its
      Communication on Interoperability (which will include both the European
      Interoperability Framework and the European Interoperability Strategy) before the
      end of 2010, as stated in point 2.2.3 of the Digital Agenda. Since this file is
      heading towards its final adoption, it is inappropriate for me to make any further
      comments about the process.
	    </p>

	<div class="grid-60 right even">
        <p>
      Our press release merely states that both this procurement and the
      revision of the European Interoperability Framework are
      coordinated by DIGIT.</p>

      <p>
      We are looking forward to the impending publication of the European
      Interoperability Framework, and, <a href="http://fsfe.org/activities/os/eifv2.en.html">despite indications to the contrary</a>
      , remain hopeful that it
      will provide at least the same level of leadership for the European
      public sector as the original version where Open Standards are
      concerned.
  </p></div>
	  </div>

      <div class="clear">
	<p class="grid-40 left even">I can only regret that you did not cross-check your sources prior to issuing the press
      release. This appears to be based exclusively on an article which contains plenty of
      misleading elements. Should you have contacted us, it would have been a pleasure for my
      department to provide you with accurate factual information, and I am sure that the result
      would have been more balanced.
	    </p>

	<div class="grid-60 right even">
            <p>
      I am pleased to inform you that rather than basing our public
      intervention merely on articles in the press, we followed FSFE's
      customary best practice of going to the source and, in this case,
      investing considerable amounts of time into studying the publicly
      available documents related to this procurement.</p>

      <p>
      We regret that the SACHA II contract itself has not been published. If
      the contract were to be made publicly available, FSFE and other
      European citizens who care about the way in which their taxes are
      invested and their institutions conduct their business would be able
      to verify that this agreement is truly in their best interest.</p>
      
      <p>The same applies for other contracts concluded by the Commission
      regarding the acquisition of software, such as the <a href="http://ted.europa.eu/udl?uri=TED:NOTICE:71324-2008:TEXT:EN:HTML&amp;tabId=1">EUR 49 million
      framework contract for Microsoft software and services</a> awarded to
      Fujitsu Siemens on January 10, 2008.
	</p>

        <p>
      Our goal is to increase the use of Free Software and Open Standards in
      all parts of the European public sector. This includes opening up
      public procurement to participation by Free Software companies. FSFE
      will be happy to work with DIGIT and other parts of the European
      Commission in order to support competition, choice and freedom in the
      European software market.
  </p></div>
      </div>
      
    </div>
    
  </body>


  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-12-15 14:08:10 +0100 (wed. 15 dec. 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
