<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
	   <title>Horizon 2020 Position Paper</title>
</head>
<body class="article" microformats="h-entry">
<p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our work</a></p>

	
<h1 id="position-paper-for-the-endorsement-of-Free-Software-and-open-standards-in-horizon-2020-and-all-publicly-funded-research ">Position paper for the  endorsement of Free Software and Open Standards in Horizon 2020 and all publicly-funded research </h1>

<!--p>Written by: Olga Gkotsopoulou, Erik Albers, Polina Malaja, 
Fernando Sanjurjo, Roberto Di Cosmo</p-->


<h2 id="overview">Overview</h2>


<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a charity that empowers 
users to control technology by advocating for Free Software. In a digital 
world, Free Software is the fundament of Open Knowledge, Open Innovation 
and Open Science.</p>

<p>Software is an integral part of today’s society. Our daily interactions, 
transactions, education, communication channels, work and life environments 
rely heavily on software. "Free Software" refers to all programs 
distributed under terms and licences that allow users to run the software 
for any purpose, to study how the program works, to adapt the program to 
their needs, to improve the program and to distribute the improved version 
of it so that the general public can benefit. Source code is a precondition 
for a user to study how the program works. The Free Software ideals of 
transparency, openness and collaboration are very much the same as the 
principles endorsed in scientific community, theory and process, and will 
support scientific and technological innovation in Europe and worldwide.</p>

<p>This paper summarises the FSFE's key recommendations on the midterm 
evaluation of the Horizon 2020 and the European Commission' s efforts to 
draft the Framework Programme 2018-2020. Implementing these recommendations 
will unlock the full potential of Open Science and Open Access investments, 
which are at the core of Horizon 2020.</p>

<blockquote>
<p>In line with the European Parliament resolution of 19 January 2016  
"Towards a Digital Single Market Act" (2015/2147(INI)) and common practices 
in major research institutions such as MIT, CERN and others, the FSFE 
makes the following recommendations:</p>

<ol>
<li><p>Open Standards should be preferred for all knowledge 
exchange, and in particular for the dissemination of scientific publications 
and the archival of all articles, data, and software used in scientific 
research. The use of Open Standards in data and software repositories and 
Data Management Plans (DMPs) concerning the Horizon 2020 publications, is 
necessary to ensure data preservation and Open Science. Research Funding 
Organisations should take the lead and foster changes of business models when 
dealing with research data.</p></li>

<li><p>Software developed with public funding, and in particular 
in the framework of the Horizon2020 programme should be mandatorily published 
under a Free Software licence.</p></li>

<li><p>Software developed with public funding, and in particular 
in the framework of the Horizon2020 programme should be mandatorily archived 
in a public software repository ensuring long term availability and persistent 
identification.</p></li>

<li><p>Data and software repositories and Data Management Plans (DMPs) 
must employ Free Software in order to ensure unfettered access to their 
contents and long term preservation.</p></li>

<li><p>An "Open Science" Prize should be established to raise awareness 
and promote Open Science.</p></li>
</ol>
</blockquote>


<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

<h3 id="a-free-software-project-is-like-a-scientific-process">A Free Software project is like a scientific process</h3>

<p>Free Software ideals are very similar to those which are fundamental 
to the scientific method. Both, Free Software and scientific theory, are 
based on transparency, openness and collaboration.</p>

<p>One of the pillars of the scientific method, is the ability to 
formulate a scientific theory and then test and improve it by independently 
reproducing and verifying it via scientific experiments.</p>

<p>Another essential pillar is the openness of scientific results to the 
whole scientific community to allow further research or validation. A 
scientific theory receives acceptance when the data and the method that 
has been used to work out the theory are available in full.</p>

<p>A scientific theory gains validation by its openness of data and methods 
which allow additional evidence to be gathered. It is an inherent part for 
a scientific theory to be rejected, approved or modified. Over time, as 
successive modifications build on top of each other, theories consistently 
improve and greater predictive accuracy is achieved. Different theories 
complement each other and create an environment of science and knowledge 
that is open to humanity to use, study, share and improve.</p>

<p>In a similar way, Free Software embodies the spirit of openness of data 
and methods (source code), verification and collaboration. As software is 
written code, it can be shared and improved like any other written knowledge 
or information. Free Software in this respect refers to all programs 
distributed under terms and licences that allow everyone to run the software 
for any purpose, to study how the program works, to adapt the program to their 
needs and improve it, while being able to distribute the improved version of 
the program so the general public can benefit from it.<a href="#fn1" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>

<p>Using and furthering Free Software means that the code is open to be 
used and improved by private companies, organisations, public institutions 
and the general public. Improvements of the software are available for the 
public, so the whole society benefits. And just like in the world of 
science, different pieces of Free Software complement each other and create an 
environment of software and knowledge that is open to humanity.</p>

<p>Open Science, one of the main principles promoted by Horizon 2020, acknowledges 
how important it is for the future of Europe to have large-scale interactions 
in the research community, as this will speed up discovery and innovation. 
As OECD puts it in its latest Outlook report, Open Science is the next 
frontier.<a href="#fn2" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref2"><sup>2</sup></a></p>

<p>Nowadays, software is an integral part of nearly all modern research 
from data aggregation to the application of methods and the calculation 
of final results. Talking about "Open Science" means in this respect the 
openness of the software, the data and the file formats that are in use. 
Only the openness of the digital environment will allow modern research 
to further share the data and methods in use of their research and to keep 
open the environment of science and knowledge. This openness is in need 
of the use and development of Free Software.</p>

<p>In addition, the European Commission (EC) believes that as change accelerate 
and instability becomes the new norm, public engagement with science becomes 
key for Europe<a href="#fn3" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref3"><sup>3</sup></a>. 
As we have seen, the freedom of the software to be used allows the general
public and private companies to participate in the improvement of the sources. 
This means that the use of Free Software and Open Standards allows a boost 
in scientific tools and new modes of private engagement like citizen science. </p>


<h3 id="significance-of-software-nowadays">Significance of software nowadays</h3>

<p>Software is a vital part of today’s society. Our daily lives, communication, interaction 
and the way we distribute and share information and knowledge is unimaginable 
without software. The digital revolution has meant almost every process 
or product relies on software, revealing the latter's big economic value. Just 
as scientific research has included the use of digital technology, software 
has become an integral part of modern research across all disciplines <a href="#fn4" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref4"><sup>4</sup></a>.</p>

<p>Conducting reliable research requires the scientific method to be transparent 
in order to be able to reproduce under the same circumstances. When Free 
Software is not used in scientific research, the possibility to do so is 
limited as the researcher lacks full access to the software used. This makes 
it impossible for the rest of the research community to access essential 
parts of the method that was used for the findings.</p>

<p>For accessibility, reproduction and transparency in scientific research, 
the use of Free Software is inevitable. Some authors identify the movement 
towards a Free Software development of technology as part of the megatrends 
that will drive innovation and change the face of the world the next years.<a href="#fn5" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref5"><sup>5</sup></a></p>


<h3 id="why-is-free-software-important-for-scientific-research">Why is Free Software important for scientific research?</h3>

<p>The FSFE believes that in order to be valid, research has to be conducted 
using Free Software, as it is the only way to ensure fully transparent 
access to its methodology. To choose a software that is not published 
under a Free Software licence<a href="#fn6" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref6"><sup>6</sup></a>, is a 
choice against transparency.</p>

<p>To illustrate the importance, we can look into the recent Volkswagen emissions 
scandal. A scandal that revealed Volkswagen had intentionally programmed 
diesel engines to cheat during laboratory emissions testing. As a result 
of these software manipulations, it was later known that the Volkswagen 
engines emitted nitrogen oxide pollutants up to 40 times above what is 
allowed in the US,<a href="#fn7" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref7"><sup>7</sup></a> while 
test results showed the cars to meet allowed US standards. The software 
was revealed by a group of private researchers after years of independent 
research.</p>

<p>The Volkswagen case shows how important the reliability of software is for 
scientific metrics, method applications and calculation of results. Other 
software leaves researchers in uncertainty and in the uncomfortable position 
to take results as granted instead of having the possibility to testify 
and verify them. Free Software instead, as argued above, offers transparency 
and verification of the whole research process.</p>

<p>However, the benefits of Free Software go way beyond the matter of 
transparency and accessibility. Free Software also offers the only way for 
scientific research to be sustainable and accessible in the long run. Free 
Software offers no legal costs and less legal uncertainty when it comes 
to the reuse and distribution of software used in research projects, making 
it perfect for transnational scientific collaboration, which is on the 
rise.<a href="#fn8" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref8"><sup>8</sup></a> The use 
of Free Software in publicly funded research would boost cooperation inside 
the European science community and reduce research cost. Free Software is 
reusable multiple times and not subject to the restrictions and barriers 
imposed by other software.</p>

<p>As the scientific research community relies more and more on digital 
data repositories to manage and disseminate scientific data, it is crucial 
the underlying systems that run these repositories are based on Free 
Software and offer their content in Open Standards.<a href="#fn9" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref9"><sup>9</sup></a></p>

<p>Digital preservation requires an ability for information stored or encoded 
in one technology to be migrated to another data format, operating system 
or hardware. It is inevitable and unavoidable. For this purpose, only 
repositories that are based on Free Software and Open Standards can guarantee 
long-term preservation and universal access to the data, as they allow the 
biggest interoperability between different technologies.</p>

<p>In contrast, software repositories based on closed incompatible standards 
may produce technological incompatibilities, limitation of the universal 
access and possibly higher costs of maintenance and future migration processes.</p>


<h2 id="recommendations">Recommendations</h2>

<h3 id="data-preservation-and-open-science-through-open-standards">Data preservation and Open Science through Open Standards</h3>

<blockquote>
<p>Open Standards should be preferred for all knowledge exchange, and 
in particular for the dissemination of scientific publications and the 
archival of all articles, data, and software used in scientific research. The 
use of Open Standards in data and software repositories and Data 
Management Plans (DMPs) concerning the Horizon 2020 publications, is 
necessary to ensure data preservation and Open Science. Research Funding 
Organisations should take the lead and foster changes of business models 
when dealing with research data.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Open Standards are the foundation of cooperation in modern society.<a href="#fn10" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref10"><sup>10</sup></a> 
They allow people to share data freely, prevent vendor lock-in and other 
artificial barriers to interoperability, and promote choice among vendors
and technology solutions.<a href="#fn11" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref11"><sup>11</sup></a></p>

<p>The best example of the significant value of interoperability and Open 
Standards is the World Wide Web. If the World Wide Web was stripped of 
its interoperability features, the Web as we know it today would never 
have existed. The Internet itself grew mainly thanks to widely shared 
protocols and standards<a href="#fn12" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref12"><sup>12</sup></a>, that are 
easily accessible to everyone.</p>

<p>Regarding Open Knowledge and Open Science, the whole research process 
should be structured upon comprehensive policies that encompass measures 
related to the reuse and re-distribution of scientific data, ensuring 
universal participation and cooperation. These measures must be taken 
into account at all levels of a scientific process when designing, creating, 
disseminating and evaluating data, information and knowledge.<a href="#fn13" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref13"><sup>13</sup></a></p>

<p>The FSFE therefore suggests the full endorsement of Open Standards, 
defined hereinafter, as a necessary condition to ensure data preservation 
and Open Science. An Open Standard 
<a href="#fn14" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref14"><sup>14</sup></a> refers 
to a format or protocol that is:</p>

<ul>
<li><p>subject to full public assessment and use without constraints in 
a manner equally available to all parties;</p></li>
<li><p>without any components or extensions that have dependencies on 
formats or protocols that do not meet the definition of an Open Standard themselves;</p></li>
<li><p>free from legal or technical clauses that limit its utilisation 
by any party or in any business model;</p></li>
<li><p>managed and further developed independently of any single vendor 
in a process open to the equal participation of competitors and third parties;</p></li>
<li><p>available in multiple complete implementations by competing 
vendors, or as a complete implementation equally available to all parties.</p></li>
</ul>

<p>The FSFE suggests that this definition is included in the Guidelines 
on Open Access Policy and that Open Standards become mandatory for data 
repositories and DMPs concerning the Horizon 2020 publications.</p>


<h3 id="free-software-as-the-default-option-for-horizon-2020">Free Software as the default option for Horizon 2020</h3>

<blockquote>
<p>Software developed with public funding, and in particular in the 
framework of the Horizon2020 programme should be mandatorily published 
under a Free Software licence.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The FSFE calls for all software being developed in-house or by service 
partners paid with public money or public-private partnerships to be 
published under a Free Software licence. This way, the solutions developed 
by one research institution can be reused and distributed to other 
educational establishments and research institutions.</p>

<p>Several European research organisations and institutions are 'locked' 
into their ICT systems because knowledge about how the system works is 
available only to their specific vendor. This means every time they need 
to purchase new components or licences, only a single vendor can provide 
them. This severe lack of competition leads to higher prices and 
some € 1.1 billion per year is lost unnecessarily, in the public sector 
alone.<a href="#fn15" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref15"><sup>15</sup></a> Reusable 
solutions, on the other hand, that are easily adaptable and customisable 
independently from a single vendor will help to reduce the possibility 
of ICT vendor lock-in in all fields heavily dependant on software 
solutions<a href="#fn16" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref16"><sup>16</sup></a>.</p>

<p>Releasing publicly funded software as Free Software also benefits 
society at large, as software can be reused, further developed and improved 
by everyone outside of the single public institution. Improvements can 
be done by single persons, other public institutions or even private 
companies. This way, everyone can benefit. In other words, the demand 
for publicly funded software to be published as Free Software underlines 
the need for "Science with and for Society", as described in the Work 
Programme 2018-2020.<a href="#fn17" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref17"><sup>17</sup></a></p>

<p>In this respect, the FSFE calls for full implementation of the European 
Parliament resolution of 19 January 2016 "Towards a Digital Single 
Market Act" (2015/2147(INI)) where the European Parliament urges 
the European Commission to increase the share of Free Software and its 
reuse in and between public administrations as a solution to increase 
interoperability.<a href="#fn18" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref18"><sup>18</sup></a>
Additionally, the European Parliament demands that the EU 2020 strategy’s 
research and innovation targets include […] "the increased use of free and open 
source software, particularly in educational establishments and public 
administrations, and easier access for SMEs and start-ups to Horizon 2020 
funding adapted to the short innovation cycles of the ICT 
sector[emphasis added]."<a href="#fn19" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref19"><sup>19</sup></a></p>

<p>The FSFE supports the European Parliament's demands and asks the European 
Commission to take these demands duly into consideration when drafting 
the Work Programme 2018-2020.</p>

<p>Such a decision also goes in hand with prominent international public 
institutions that are using Free Software licences to release software 
that was funded and/or developed with public funds. In the USA, many 
public universities (e.g. MIT) and institutions (e.g. NASA) publish most 
of their software that does not contain any sensitive data, as Free 
Software. In Europe, the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN), 
an institution that is at the forefront of scientific and technological 
advancement, is basing its infrastructure on Free Software, and has a long 
tradition of Open Access.</p>


<h3 id="endorsing-free-software-as-part-of-open-science">Endorsing Free Software as part of Open Science</h3>

<h4 id="the-principle-of-openness-in-horizon2020"><strong>The Principle of Openness in Horizon 2020</strong></h4>

<p>Horizon 2020 is the financial instrument implementing the Innovation 
Union which is the Europe 2020 flagship initiative aiming at securing 
Europe's global competitiveness. Its primary goal is to invest EU funds 
in scientific research for the common good.<a href="#fn20" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref20"><sup>20</sup></a> Such common 
good can be scientific advances and technological inventions that ensure 
better living conditions, cure for incurable diseases, a growing employment 
environment and a sustainable future for the generations to come.</p>

<p>The produced knowledge should also be treated as a public good that will 
boost innovation and lead progress in Europe and beyond. As stated in the 
Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific Publications and Research Data 
in Horizon 2020, “the Europe 2020 strategy for a smart, sustainable and 
inclusive economy underlines the central role of knowledge and innovation 
in generating growth.”<a href="#fn21" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref21"><sup>21</sup></a></p>

<p>According to Robert K. Merton, the results of scientific work are the 
results of cooperative efforts and must be made available to all 
scientists<a href="#fn22" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref22"><sup>22</sup></a>. In the 
digital age, this approach is translated as demand for Open Access and Open Science 
based on Open Standards and Free Software, because the latter two contribute 
not only to scientific but also to social progress. New possibilities of 
sharing and access to information will boost knowledge management and 
enable new modes of civil participation like the so-called citizen's 
science.<a href="#fn23" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref23"><sup>23</sup></a></p>

<p>So far, Open Access and Open Science try to grow from a theory to a 
reality.<a href="#fn24" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref24"><sup>24</sup></a> However, for 
the time being the reality of access to scientific data is that only a 
very small number of publications are openly accessible,<a href="#fn25" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref25"><sup>25</sup></a> despite 
the fact that more and more scientists choose Open Access models for the 
publication of results.<a href="#fn26" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref26"><sup>26</sup></a></p>

<p>Two recent European Commission public consultations showed that researchers, 
libraries, funders and businesses believe that the access to scientific 
information is problematic and this is a key barrier to the circulation 
of knowledge in Europe. Respondents to these consultations indicated Open 
Access as the key tool to overcome limitations. Over 90% of respondents 
believed publications resulting from publicly funded research should be 
available by open access.<a href="#fn27" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref27"><sup>27</sup></a></p>

<p>Open Access practices are well into play already in the anglo-saxon 
world. Specifically in the U.S., any work wholly financed by federal funds 
must be freely accessible to all,<a href="#fn28" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref28"><sup>28</sup></a> while 
the so-called Public Access to Science Act, aims to extend this to any 
research work that receives major funding from public resources.<a href="#fn29" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref29"><sup>29</sup></a> In the 
UK, all publicly funded work is being published under the Open Government 
Licence that grants access and reuse rights to everyone.</p>

<p>Thus, it is time for the European Union to take initiative. Scientific 
data and results paid with public money should be made available to the 
public.<a href="#fn30" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref30"><sup>30</sup></a> In 
particular, publicly funded research must not disappear or lose its value 
due to payment barriers and private commercial interests.<a href="#fn31" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref31"><sup>31</sup></a></p>

<p>On the contrary, publicly funded research should become accessible to
the public in efficient and sufficient ways. This will help the global 
scientific community and will strengthen the reputation of European 
science and European institutions within the EU. A good Open Access strategy 
will put the European Union in the forefront of a modern and digital science 
community.<a href="#fn32" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref32"><sup>32</sup></a> Research 
institutions and universities all over the world call for Open Access and 
are engaged in collective initiatives for its promotion or have created 
their own Open Access policies.<a href="#fn33" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref33"><sup>33</sup></a></p>
 
<p>In addition, free public access to all publicly funded research is 
already described by the European Commission as "a vision of the future"; of 
Open Science not only in Europe, but globally for the year 2030.<a href="#fn34" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref34"><sup>34</sup></a></p>
<br></br>

<h4 id="inclusion-of-software-under-open-access"><strong>Inclusion of software under Open Access</strong></h4>

<blockquote>
<p>The software used or developed during scientific research, as integral 
part of scientific data should be covered by Open Access rules.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The FSFE endorses the conclusions drawn by the Council of the European 
Union towards an Open Science system and acknowledges that unnecessary 
legal, organisational and financial barriers to access results of publicly 
funded research should be removed as much as possible.<a href="#fn35" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref35"><sup>35</sup></a></p>

<p>Based on the specific aspects presented in the first Annex of the 
Background Paper to the consultation on potential strategy and priorities 
for research and innovation in the Horizon 2020 “Science with and for Society” Work 
Programme 2018-2020<a href="#fn36" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref36"><sup>36</sup></a>, Free 
Software can be considered as deeply related to the most important aspects 
of it, such as public engagement, science education, ethics, open access 
and governance.</p>

<p>To specify, Free Software could be incorporated in many of the "Science 
With and For Society" Advisory Group's suggestions and in particular 
concerning the following points: encouraging the youth to follow scientific 
and technological careers, promoting the so-called citizens' science, and 
more importantly, developing the accessibility and (re-)use of the results 
of publicly-funded research.<a href="#fn37" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref37"><sup>37</sup></a></p>

<p>On the other side, in the EC Guidelines on Open Access, special attention 
is drawn upon the benefits of the broader access to scientific publications 
and data, including software and software tools/applications. The guidelines 
specifically encourage projects to provide information and access to specialised 
software or code in order to validate the results.<a href="#fn38" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref38"><sup>38</sup></a></p>

<p>Taking a closer look, it is obvious that benefits of Open Access do 
coincide with the four freedoms provided by Free Software licences: to 
use software, to study how it works, to share it with others, and to 
improve it according to one's needs. Thus, Open Access should not be 
merely understood as "free online access to publication", but 
instead to receive a more sophisticated definition, including the four 
specific freedoms.</p>

<p>In particular, the ability to build upon previous research results, 
which leads to improved quality of results, is a synonym to the freedom 
to improve the given software, based on previously developed code ["standing 
on the shoulder of giants"]. The encouragement of collaboration among the 
scientists and the avoidance of duplication or greater effort, coincides 
with the freedoms to use and to share software. Involving citizens and 
society, ensuring greater transparency of the scientific process is 
similar to the freedom to study how the software works. This means that 
there are no obstacles in logically extending EU Open Access policies to 
software. It is also noteworthy, that historically, Open Access movement 
has been closely related to Free Software that helped to shape the existing 
principles and ideas of Open Access as we know it today.<a href="#fn39" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref39"><sup>39</sup></a> Consequently, there 
is no reason to deny the treatment of software on the equal level with 
scientific publications and data from scientific research as a part of 
broader Open Science movement.</p>

<p>In addition, the four freedoms granted by Free Software speed-up 
innovation, which in turn leads to faster market access and growth.<a href="#fn40" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref40"><sup>40</sup></a> The Commissioner 
for Research, Science and Innovation Carlos Moedas has repeatedly emphasised 
on the importance of Open Innovation and Open Science for the overall 
growth of a society.<a href="#fn41" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref41"><sup>41</sup></a></p>

<p>Therefore, in a future revision of the European Commission's policy on 
Open Access and more specifically, the Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific 
Publications and Research Data in Horizon 2020,<a href="#fn42" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref42"><sup>42</sup></a> the FSFE 
suggests the inclusion of an annex for publishing software under FSF and 
OSI approved licences.<a href="#fn43" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref43"><sup>43</sup></a> Moreover, we 
consider that Free Software and Open Standards should be explicit part 
of the Strategic Foresight,<a href="#fn44" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref44"><sup>44</sup></a> the 
report which aims to support the preparation of the third strategic 
programme of Horizon 2020 (2018-2020), under the umbrella of Open Science.</p>

<p>It should be made clear that publishing software under Free Software licences 
does not mean that the researchers cannot have a financial profit out of 
their work<a href="#fn45" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref45"><sup>45</sup></a>. It only means 
that their code carries the four freedoms.<a href="#fn46" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref46"><sup>46</sup></a> If there 
are no specific ad hoc restrictions, there is no problem with the adoption 
of a Free Software licence over the project results. Free Software 
licensing might provide for better visibility, outreach and re-use of 
the results and could therefore be beneficial to the overall impact of 
the project in the scientific community.<a href="#fn47" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref47"><sup>47</sup></a></p>

<p>This is in accordance with the Open Access interpretation under 
Horizon 2020, as the online access to scientific publications, at no 
charge to the end-user.<a href="#fn48" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref48"><sup>48</sup></a> Open Access 
therefore only aims at making the work of the researchers as widely accessible 
as possible – it does not aim at putting the publications in the public 
domain,<a href="#fn49" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref49"><sup>49</sup></a> nor to 
allow the public to reproduce or redistribute a work without its owner’s 
consent.<a href="#fn50" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref50"><sup>50</sup></a></p>

<br></br>
<h4 id="open-access-as-the-default-option-for-publications"><strong>Open Access as the default option for publications</strong></h4>

<blockquote>
<p>Open Access is and should remain the default option for the 
scientific publications of Horizon 2020 projects. Opting-out should be 
an exception, strictly interpreted.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Open Access is the default option for scientific publications of Horizon 
2020 projects, but there is still the possibility for the scientists to 
opt-out.<a href="#fn51" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref51"><sup>51</sup></a></p>

<p>The FSFE asks for full implementation of the extension of the Open Research 
Data Pilot<a href="#fn52" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref52"><sup>52</sup></a> and 
in particular, "projects should provide information via the chosen public 
repository about the tools available to the beneficiaries that are needed 
to validate the results, e.g. specialised software or software code, algorithms 
and analysis protocols. Where possible, they should provide these 
instruments themselves." That being said, this information should include, 
not only code but also all the necessary documentation that ensures the 
reusability of software.</p>

<p>Opting-out should be interpreted strictly and be permitted exceptionally, in accordance 
with public interest.<a href="#fn53" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref53"><sup>53</sup></a> It should 
also be valid only under very specific circumstances, as in accordance 
with the EC policy on Open Access <a href="#fn54" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref54"><sup>54</sup></a> and 
the meeting of the Competitiveness Council in Brussels on 27 May, 2016. In 
this meeting, the EU ministers responsible for research and innovation 
decided unanimously that by 2020 all scientific publications on the 
results of publicly funded research in Europe must be freely available 
under Open Access.<a href="#fn55" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref55"><sup>55</sup></a></p>

<br></br>
<h4 id="maximum-transparency-during-evaluation-and-interests-balance"><strong>Maximum transparency during evaluation and interests balance</strong></h4>

<blockquote>
<p>In the case of public funding of private organisations or public-private
funding, the maximum transparency during the evaluation process of the 
projects should be guaranteed and an in-depth case-by-case assessment of 
interests balance should take place, always in favor of Open Access.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Under the Horizon 2020 criteria, only legal entities and international 
European interest organisations are eligible for funding opportunities, excluding 
natural persons. That means not only universities or other state research 
organisations can get funded, but also private for-profit organisations.</p>

<p>The FSFE calls for the maximum transparency during the evaluation 
processes of the projects and an in-depth case-by-case assessment of interests 
balance, in particular when private interests interfere with public interests. In 
other words, the FSFE welcomes and supports the Commission's position 
that it should not make a difference for Open Access application, whether 
the scientific publications on the results of research are supported by 
public or public-private funds.<a href="#fn56" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref56"><sup>56</sup></a></p>

<p>The Horizon 2020 research results (including software) must be freely 
accessible to everyone,<a href="#fn57" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref57"><sup>57</sup></a> since 
it is required by the relevant EC documents that all the scientific 
publications of the results of publicly funded research (including private-public 
funds) are freely available and all the research data reusable. To achieve 
that, data must be made accessible, unless there are well-founded reasons 
establishing the opposite, for example, security or privacy issues.<a href="#fn58" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref58"><sup>58</sup></a> The 
latter exceptions, however, need to be strictly interpreted and balanced 
out with other public objectives.</p>

<p>It is necessary to keep in mind that Open Access to publicly funded 
research data not only helps to maximise the research potential of new 
digital technologies and networks, but provides greater returns from the 
public investment in research.<a href="#fn59" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref59"><sup>59</sup></a></p>


<h3 id="repositories-for-scientific-publications-data-and-software">Repositories for Scientific Publications, Data and Software</h3>

<blockquote>
<p>Software developed with public funding, and in particular in the framework 
of the Horizon2020 programme should be mandatorily archived in a public 
software repository ensuring long term availability and persistent identification.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe encourages the archiving of the 
scientific knowledge, including software, in public repositories for 
further use both by researchers and civil society.</p>

<p>According to “Digital science in Horizon 2020”, openness of research 
is defined as the only way to enhance the value of scientific knowledge 
by ensuring its accessibility for all, through online media.<a href="#fn60" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref60"><sup>60</sup></a> This 
visibility also contributes to the quality, transparency and reproducibility 
of the research results. Nevertheless, this visibility can only be secured 
when open, immediate and free access to scientific results, including the 
software and models used for results generation, is ensured.</p>

<p>The FSFE welcomes the Open Research Data Pilot and other EC-initiated 
public repository initiatives such as the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) 
and the JoinUp repository for code developed by and for public administrations 
across Europe.</p>

<p>Taking into account the First report and recommendations on the European 
Open Science Cloud, the FSFE would like to endorse the FAIR principles which 
will guide implementations to make research objects Findable, Accessible, 
Interoperable, Re-usable and ultimately citable. <a href="#fn61" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref61"><sup>61</sup></a> The FSFE 
would like to emphasise that the FAIR terms are fully compliant with Free 
Software.</p>

<blockquote>
<p>Data and software repositories and Data Management Plans (DMPs) must 
employ Free Software in order to ensure unfettered access to their contents 
and long term preservation.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The FSFE insists that not only the scientific data on these platforms 
shall be open, but also the software these platforms run with should be 
made publicly available as Free Software, guaranteeing the preservation 
of digital knowledge over the years.</p>

<p>OpenAIRE is a great example of a Free Software archiving platform which 
is interoperable and reusable. With almost 17.5 m publications from the 
EU and in cooperation with the biggest South American repository La 
Referencia, it has become the largest inter-regional network for the hosting 
and distribution of Open Access publications in the world.<a href="#fn62" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref62"><sup>62</sup></a></p>

<p>Zenodo, the CERN supported platform, is another good practice amongst 
repositories. It is "open in every sense", runs and is built 
on Free Software. The relevant work-in-progress, open issues, and roadmaps 
are shared openly on GitHub and contributions to any aspect or suggestions 
for new features are welcome from anyone. All meta data is openly 
available, and all open content is openly accessible through open APIs.<a href="#fn63" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref63"><sup>63</sup></a></p>

<p>The Software Heritage Initiative, that is now archiving not only source 
code of research software, but all available software worldwide, is another 
great example to adopt and support in the framework of Open Science. It is 
a reference software repository built entirely on Free Software, its development 
and design go through an open process, it provides persistent, long term, intrinsic 
identifiers, essential for reproducibility of science, and is building an 
international open network of mirrors in order to ensure long term 
availability of its archive.</p>

<p>Last but not least, the open knowledge policy of the JPI Climate, the 
EFSA (European Food Safety Agency) Knowledge Junction and the CERN Data 
Portal also constitute good practices of Open Science.</p>


<h3 id="open-science-prizes">"Open Science" Prizes</h3>

<blockquote>
<p>An "Open Science" Prize should be established to raise awareness and 
promote Open Science.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>With regards to the General Findings of the Public consultation on the 
Science with and for Society Work Programme 2016-2017<a href="#fn64" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref64"><sup>64</sup></a>, 
under the section “Open Science”, it was a general demand from the contributors 
that the knowledge around concepts of open data and shared data is 
developed; and that proposals on how Open Science could be part of reward 
systems and incentives for Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) 
activities are explored.</p>

<p>The same reference is also part of the priorities scheme in the Report 
for the EOSC, where it is stated "[...]improve funding and rewards for 
open data sharing at research performing organisations and funders".<a href="#fn65" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref65"><sup>65</sup></a> 
The FSFE considers excellence should be awarded in every case and especially, 
when researchers provide their scientific results for the public good.</p>

<p>Taking into account the existing Horizon 2020 Prizes and the increasing 
number of Horizon 2020 projects based on Free Software, we believe an “Open Science” 
Prize should be established, including secondary categories specifically 
intended for projects using or developing Free Software. These prizes shall 
reward researchers who develop software and release it as Free Software. 
This way, not only scientists who promote Open Science will be honoured 
for their work, but also awareness concerning the benefits of Open Access 
and Open Science will be raised among participating universities, schools, 
private entities and other stakeholders.</p>

<p>The European Commission has already taken the lead, launching the "Sharing 
and Reuse Awards Contes" in order to raise awareness about the benefits of 
sharing and reuse of IT solutions in the public sector, awarding a total 
of €100 000 to public administrations that share and re-use Free Software 
solutions.<a href="#fn66" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref66"><sup>66</sup></a></p>

<p>In addition to its positive effects on Open Science, an "Open Science" 
Prize would also clearly benefit RRI.<a href="#fn67" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref67"><sup>67</sup></a> RRI requires 
from the researcher during the whole scientific process to consider the 
requirements of Science For society and Science With Society,<a href="#fn68" class="footnoteRef" id="fnref68"><sup>68</sup></a> in order 
to meet global societal needs through increased inter-disciplinary collaboration 
between researchers, and to conduct responsible research. The use of Free 
Software fully endorses the notion of RRI, because through easily verifiable 
and accessible research it maximises both the collaboration between researchers 
in various fields, and the accuracy of the results produced via research. As 
such, by using and endorsing Free Software, one conducts fully responsible 
research, making its methods available for further verification and 
improvement by others.</p>

<p></p>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn1"><p>Free Software, also known as 'open source', <a href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">See more: Free Software Foundation, What is Free Software?</a> [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref1">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn2"><p>OECD (2016), OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/sti_in_outlook-2016-en">Technology and Innovation Outlook 2016</a>, OECD Publishing Paris.<a href="#fnref2">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn3"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="https://bookshop.europa.eu/en/strategic-foresight-pbKI0215938/">Strategic Foresight: Towards the 3rd Strategic Programme of Horizon 2020</a>, Brussels 2016, p.43 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref3">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn4"><p>American Scientist, <a href="http://www.americanscientist.org/issues/pub/how-do-scientists-really-use-computers/1">How Do Scientists Really Use Computers?</a> [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref4">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn5"><p>OECD (2016), OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/sti_in_outlook-2016-en">Technology and Innovation Outlook 2016</a>, OECD Publishing, Paris.<a href="#fnref5">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn6"><p><a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html">Free Software licence as approved by the Free Software Foundation and Open Source Initiative</a>,<a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/">and here</a> [accessed 04/12/2017]. <a href="#fnref6">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn7"><p>Hotten, R. (10 December 2015) <a href="http://www.bbc.com/news/business-34324772">Volkswagen: The scandal explained, British Broadcasting Corporation</a> [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref7">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn8"><p>OECD, OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/sti_in_outlook-2016-en">Technology and Innovation Outlook 2016</a>, OECD Publishing, Paris.<a href="#fnref8">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn9"><p>Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE), <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/os.en.html">Open Standards</a> [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref9">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn10"><p>Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE), <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/os.en.html">Open Standards</a> [accessed 20/11/2016].<a href="#fnref10">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn11"><p>Wikibooks, <a href="https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/FOSS_Open_Standards/Importance_and_Benefits_of_Open_Standards">FOSS Open Standards/Importance and Benefits of Open Standards</a> [accessed 20/11/2016].<a href="#fnref11">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn12"><p>JPI Climate symposium, <a href="http://www.jpi-climate.eu/media/default.aspx/emma/org/10868118">Report on “Designing Comprehensive Open Knowledge Policies to Face Climate Change”</a>, Vienna, October 2015 [accessed 20/11/2016].<a href="#fnref12">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn13"><p>Aliprandi, Simone (2011), Interoperability and open standards: the key to true openness and innovation, in: International Free and Open Source Software Law Review, 3(1), pp 5 – 24, DOI: 10.5033/ifosslr.v3i1.53 .<a href="#fnref13">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn14"><p>Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE), <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/def.en.html">Open Standards definition</a> [accessed 20/11/2016].<a href="#fnref14">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn15"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/against-lock-building-open-ict-systems-making-better-use-standards-public">Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, Against lock-in: building open ICT systems by making better use of standards in public procurement</a>, Brussels, June 2013<a href="#fnref15">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn16"><p>Ibid.<a href="#fnref16">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn17"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/consultations/swafs-wp2018-2020/background.pdf">Annex 1 - Background Paper to the Consultation on potential strategy and priorities for research and innovation in the Horizon 2020 "Science with and for Society" Work Programme 2018-2020</a>, Brussels, March 2016 [accessed 24/11/2016].<a href="#fnref17">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn18"><p>European Parliament, <a href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?pubRef=-//EP//TEXT+TA+P8-TA-2016-0009+0+DOC+XML+V0//EN">Resolution of 19 January 2016 on Towards a Digital Single Market Act (2015/2147(INI)</a>, Point 110 [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref18">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn19"><p>Ibid, Point 125.<a href="#fnref19">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn20"><p>European Commission, <a href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2010:2020:FIN:EN:PDF">Communication from the Commission “Europe 2020 - A strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth"</a>, Brussels, March 2010 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref20">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn21"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/grants_manual/hi/oa_pilot/h2020-hi-oa-pilot-guide_en.pdf">H2020 Programme - Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific Publications and Research Data in Horizon 2020 v. 3.1.</a>, Brussels, August 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref21">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn22"><p>Merton, R. K., The Normative Structure of Science, in Merton, Robert K., The Sociology of Science: Theoretical and Empirical Investigations,University of Chicago Press, Chicago 1973.<a href="#fnref22">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn23"><p>Fecker Benedikt, et al., <a href="https://www.hiig.de/blog/open-access-oder-die-zurueckeroberung-der-autonomie/">Open Access oder: die Zurückeroberung der Autonomie</a>, Alexander von Humbolt – Institut fuer Internet und Gesellschaft, HIIG Blog, November 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref23">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn24"><p>Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jrs2f963zs1-en">Making Open Science a Reality</a> No. 25, OECD Publishing, Paris 2015 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref24">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn25"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://bookshop.europa.eu/en/open-innovation-open-science-open-to-the-world-pbKI0416263/">The 3 Os: Open Innovation, Open Science, Open to the World</a>, Brussels 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref25">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn26"><p>OECD (2016), OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/sti_in_outlook-2016-en">Technology and Innovation Outlook 2016</a>, OECD Publishing Paris.<a href="#fnref26">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn27"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/science-society/document_library/pdf_06/background-paper-open-access-october-2012_en.pdf">Background note on open access to publications and data in Horizon 2020</a>, Brussels [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref27">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn28"><p>Van Noorden, R., <a href="http://www.nature.com/news/us-science-to-be-open-to-all-1.12512">US science to be open to all</a>, in: Nature 494, February 2013, pp. 414–415. [accessed 01/12/2016]<a href="#fnref28">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn29"><p>Di Cosmo, R., Scientific Publications, <a href="http://www.dicosmo.org/FSP/FATOS-Upgrade-03-2006.pdf">The Role of Public Administrations in The ICT Era in: Free Software Licenses in Context</a>, UPGRADE Vol. VII, No. 3, June 2006 [accessed 29/11/2016].<a href="#fnref29">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn30"><p>OOECD (2016), OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/sti_in_outlook-2016-en">Technology and Innovation Outlook 2016</a>, OECD Publishing Paris.<a href="#fnref30">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn31"><p>Europan Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/science-society/document_library/pdf_06/survey-on-scientific-information-digital-age_en.pdf">Online survey on scientific information in the digital age</a>, European Union, 2012 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref31">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn32"><p>OECD (2016), OECD Science, <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/sti_in_outlook-2016-en">Technology and Innovation Outlook 2016</a>, OECD Publishing Paris.<a href="#fnref32">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn33"><p>Here are some examples: <a href="https://www.projekt-deal.de/">the DEAL project</a>, <a href="http://www.budapestopenaccessinitiative.org/">the Budapest Open Access Initiative</a> and <a href="https://openaccess.mpg.de/Berlin-Declaration">the Max-Planck Institute</a>.<a href="#fnref33">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn34"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="http://bookshop.europa.eu/en/open-innovation-open-science-open-to-the-world-pbKI0416263/?CatalogCategoryID=Gj0KABst5F4AAAEjsZAY4e5L">"Open innovation, open science, open to the world: A vision for Europe"</a>, 2016, p. 34 [accessed 02/12/2016].<a href="#fnref34">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn35"><p>Council of the European Union, <a href="http://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9526-2016-INIT/en/pdf">The transition towards an Open Science system - Council conclusions</a> (adopted on 27/05/2016), 8791/16 RECH 133 TELECOM 74, Brussels, May 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref35">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn36"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/consultations/swafs-wp2018-2020/background.pdf">Annex 1 - Background Paper to the Consultation on potential strategy and priorities for research and innovation in the Horizon 2020 "Science with and for Society" Work Programme 2018-2020</a>, Brussels, March 2016 [accessed 24/11/2016].<a href="#fnref36">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn37"><p>"Science With and For Society" Advisory Group, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/swafs/pdf/strategic_opinion_final.pdf">Strategic Opinion for research and innovation in the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018–2020 - Recommendations to the European Commission</a>, Brussels, May 2016, p.19, points a), b) and e) [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref37">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn38"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/grants_manual/hi/oa_pilot/h2020-hi-oa-pilot-guide_en.pdf">H2020 Programme - Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific Publications and Research Data in Horizon 2020 v. 3.1.</a>, Brussels, August 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref38">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn39"><p>Laakso, M., <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0020961">"The Development of Open Access Journal Publishing from 1993 to 2009"</a>, PLOS, 2011. [accessed 22/12/2016]<a href="#fnref39">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn40"><p>"Science With and For Society" Advisory Group, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/swafs/pdf/strategic_opinion_final.pdf">Strategic Opinion for research and innovation in the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018–2020 - Recommendations to the European Commission</a>, Brussels, May 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref40">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn41"><p>Moedas, C., Commissioner for Research, <a href="">Science and Innovation, Open Innovation, Open Science, Open to the World in : "A new start for Europe: Opening up to an ERA of Innovation"</a> Conference, Brussels June 2015 [accessed 24/11/2016]<a href="#fnref41">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn42"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_SPEECH-15-5243_el.htm"></a>H2020 Programme - Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific Publications and Research Data in Horizon 2020 v. 3.1., Brussels, August 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref42">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn43"><p><a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html">Free Software licence as approved by the Free Software Foundation and Open Source Initiative</a> [accessed 04/01/2017]<a href="#fnref43">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn44"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="https://bookshop.europa.eu/en/strategic-foresight-pbKI0215938/">Strategic Foresight: Towards the 3rd Strategic Programme of Horizon 2020</a>, Brussels 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref44">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn45"><p>European IPR Helpdesk, <a href="https://www.iprhelpdesk.eu/sites/default/files/newsdocuments/Open_Access_in_H2020.pdf">Fact Sheet: Open access to publications and data in Horizon 2020: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)</a>, Brussels May 2014 [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref45">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn46"><p><a href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">The four essential freedoms, as stated in gnu.org</a> [accessed 23/11/2016]<a href="#fnref46">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn47"><p>European IPR Helpdesk, <a href="https://www.iprhelpdesk.eu/kb/2646-will-it-be-possible-release-our-horizon-2020-project-results-software-under-open-source">Will it be possible to release our Horizon 2020 project results (software) under an open source licence?</a> [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref47">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn48"><p>Suber, P., <a href="https://mitpress.mit.edu/sites/default/files/9780262517638_Open_Access_PDF_Version.pdf">Open Access, The MIT Press Essential Knowledge Series 2012</a>. [accessed 22/12/2016]<a href="#fnref48">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn49"><p>European IPR Helpdesk, <a href="https://www.iprhelpdesk.eu/kb/2646-will-it-be-possible-release-our-horizon-2020-project-results-software-under-open-source">Will it be possible to release our Horizon 2020 project results (software) under an open source licence?</a> [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref49">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn50"><p>Open Access Scholarly Information Sourcebook (OASIS), <a href="http://www.openoasis.org/index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=146&amp;Itemid=308">Benefits of Open Access for research dissemination</a> [accessed 01/12/2016]<a href="#fnref50">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn51"><p>EU2016, <a href="https://english.eu2016.nl/latest/news/2016/05/27/all-european-scientific-articles-to-be-freely-accessible-by-2020">All European scientific articles to be freely accessible by 2020 Europe makes a definitive choice for open access by 2020</a>, Press release, May 2016 [accessed 25/11/2016].<a href="#fnref51">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn52"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/grants_manual/hi/oa_pilot/h2020-hi-oa-data-mgt_en.pdf<a href="">H2020 Programme - Guidelines on FAIR Data Management in Horizon 2020</a>, Brussels, July 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref52">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn53"><p>Council of the European Union, <a href="http://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9526-2016-INIT/en/pdf">The transition towards an Open Science system - Council conclusions</a> (adopted on 27/05/2016), 8791/16 RECH 133 TELECOM 74, Brussels, May 2016. [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref53">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn54"><p>Europan Commission, <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/research/science-society/document_library/pdf_06/era-communication-towards-better-access-to-scientific-information_en.pdf">Boosting the benefits of public investments in research</a>, Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, Brussels, July 2012 [accessed 01/12/2016].<a href="#fnref54">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn55"><p>EU2016, <a href="https://english.eu2016.nl/latest/news/2016/05/27/all-european-scientific-articles-to-be-freely-accessible-by-2020">All European scientific articles to be freely accessible by 2020 Europe makes a definitive choice for open access by 2020</a>, Press release, May 2016 [accessed 25/11/2016].<a href="#fnref55">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn56"><p>European Commission, <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/invest-in-research/pdf/download_en/knowledge_transfe_07.pdf">Improving knowledge transfer between research institutions and industry across Europe</a>, Brussels 2007 [accessed 23/11/2016]<a href="#fnref56">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn57"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/grants_manual/hi/oa_pilot/h2020-hi-oa-pilot-guide_en.pdf">H2020 Programme - Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific Publications and Research Data in Horizon 2020 v. 3.1.</a>, Brussels, August 2016 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref57">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn58"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/open-science">Digital science in Horizon 2020</a>, Brussels March 2013 [accessed 23/11/2016]<a href="#fnref58">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn59"><p>Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), <a href="https://www.oecd.org/sti/sci-tech/38500813.pdf">OECD Principles and Guidelines for Access to Research Data from Public Funding</a>, Paris 2007 [accessed 22/11/2016]<a href="#fnref59">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn60"><p>European Commission, <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/open-science">Digital science in Horizon 2020</a>, Brussels March 2013 [accessed 23/11/2016]<a href="#fnref60">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn61"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, High Level Expert Group, <a href=" http://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/realising_the_european_open_science_cloud_2016.pdf">First report and recommendations on the European Open Science Cloud "Realising the European Open Science Cloud"</a>, European Union 2016 [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref61">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn62"><p>Rettberg, N., <a href="https://www.europeandataportal.eu/sites/default/files/2014_open_research_in_europe.pdf">European Public Sector Information Platform Topic Report No. 2014/ 10 Open Research in Europe- OpenAIRE</a>, October 2014 [accessed 23/11/2016]<a href="#fnref62">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn63"><p>See: <a href="https://zenodo.org/about">Zenodo.org</a> [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref63">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn64"><p>European Commission, <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/research/consultations/swafs/general_findings.pdf">Public consultation on the Science with and for Society Work Programme 2016-2017 General Findings</a>, Brussels February 2015 [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref64">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn65"><p>European Commission, Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/realising_the_european_open_science_cloud_2016.pdf">High Level Expert Group, First report and recommendations on the European Open Science Cloud "Realising the European Open Science Cloud"</a>, European Union 2016 [accessed 22/11/2016].<a href="#fnref65">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn66"><p>See more: <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/sharingandreuse/og_page/awards-contest"> Joinup.ec .</a> See also: <a href="https://www.openscienceprize.org/res/p/FAQ/">Open Science Prize</a>. The Open Science Prize is a new initiative in the field of health from the Wellcome Trust, US National Institutes of Health and Howard Hughes Medical Institute to encourage the prototyping and development of services that enable open content – including publications, datasets, code and other research outputs – to be discovered, accessed and re-used in ways that will advance research.<a href="#fnref66">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn67"><p>Owen, R. et al., Responsible research and innovation,<a href=" From science in society to science for society, with society in: Science and Public Policy"></a> Vol. 39, pp. 751–76, 2012. <a href="#fnref67">↩</a></p></li>
<li id="fn68"><p>Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD), <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jrs2f963zs1-en">Making Open Science a Reality, OECD Science, Technology and Industry Policy Papers</a>, No. 25, OECD Publishing, Paris 2015 [accessed 23/11/2016].<a href="#fnref68">↩</a></p></li>
</ol>
</div>

</body>


<sidebar promo="our-work">
	<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="#overview">Overview</a></li>
		<li><a href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
		<li><a href="#recommendations">Recommendations</a></li>
		<li><a href="#data-preservation-and-open-science-through-open-standards">Data preservation and Open Science through Open Standards</a></li>
		<li><a href="#free-software-as-the-default-option-for-horizon-2020">Free Software as the default option for Horizon 2020</a></li>
		<li><a href="#endorsing-free-software-as-part-of-open-science">Endorsing Free Software as part of Open Science</a></li>
		<li><a href="#repositories-for-scientific-publications-data-and-software">Repositories for Scientific Publications, Data and Software</a></li>
		<li><a href="#open-science-prizes">"Open Science" Prizes</a></li>
		</ul>
	
<h2>Related links</h2>
<ul>
<li>
<a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20170105-horizon2020-position-paper.pdf">
Position Paper for the endorsement of Free Software and Open Standards in 
Horizon 2020 and all publicly-funded research </a>
(pdf)
</li>
<li>
<a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/horizon2020/horizon2020.en.html">
Promoting innovation and growth through Horizon 2020 </a>
by Eszter Bakó and Karsten Gerloff 
</li>
</ul>
</sidebar>

<tags>
<tag content="Open Science">OpenScience</tag>
<tag Content="Policy">Policy</tag>
<tag content="European Commission">EuropeanCommission</tag>
<tag content="Horizon 2020">Horizon2020</tag>
<tag content="Open Standards">OpenStandards</tag>

</tags>	
<author id="gkotsopoulou" />
<author id="albers" />
<author id="malaja" />
<author content="Fernando Sanjurjo" />
<author content="Roberto Di Cosmo" />
<date>
<original content="2017-01-05"/>
</date>

	</html>
	
	
	
	
	
