<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
    <title>Policy goals 2014 - 2019 - Overview - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>Policy goals 2014 - 2019</h1>
    	<ul>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.en.html#id-public-bodies">Public bodies</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.en.html#id-consumer-rights-and-device-sovereignty">Consumer rights and device sovereignty</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.en.html#id-privacy-surveillance-and-cryptography">Privacy, surveillance and cryptography</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.en.html#id-distributed-systems">Distributed systems</a></li>
	</ul>
	
    
    <!-- <h2>Links</h2>
    
    <alllinks/> -->
 
<!-- Public bodies -->   
    <h2>Public bodies</h2>
    <p>
	Free Software (or "open source software") - computer programs which
	anyone can use, study, share, and improve - is crucial to achieving
	these goals. Free Software powers the Internet and provides the
	foundation for most successful businesses in the information
	technology industry. Only with Free Software can users fully
	understand what a computer program actually does, which data it sends
	where, and how it generates its results.</p>

	<p>Public bodies form a crucial infrastructure of democratic
	states. Parliaments, government organizations and administrative
	bodies must be fully under the control of the state, which in turn is
	governed by its citizens through democratic processes.</p> 

	<p>In order to achieve these goals, public bodies must be in full control
	of the software and the computer systems which they use, and of the
	data which they gather, store, and process. In order to fulfill their
	obligations towards the citizens they serve, public bodies must use
	only <a href ="/freesoftware/basics/summary.en.html">Free Software</a>, and store
	their data in file formats that are compliant with <a href = "/activities/os/def.en.html">Open
	Standards</a>.</p> 

	<p>Where public bodies make use of software as a service (SaaS or "cloud"
	solutions), they must additionally avoid vendor lock-in and ensure
	that they can easily switch between different providers of such
	services. They must ensure that data is portable between providers,
	that it is stored in file formats compliant with Open Standards, and
	that the solution does not require non-free (client) software.
	Public bodies are financed through taxes. They must make sure to spend
	these funds wisely. If organizations are locked into any particular
	vendor's offerings, they will end up paying monopoly prices for
	software and related services.</p>

	<p>Instead, public bodies must procure their software and
	computer-related services only through open, competitive calls for
	tender which are open to all bidders. Public bodies must figure future
	exit costs into the price of each bid, as well as the cost of any
	licenses they would need to acquire in addition to the solution being
	offered. They should purchase only devices on which they can freely
	modify the software, and install operating systems and other programs
	of their choice.</p>

	<p>When public bodies develop software, or pay for software to be
	developed, the resulting programs must be released to the public under
	a Free Software license. Citizens and businesses have paid for this
	software with their taxes, so they should have access to it. This
	includes smartphone applications ("apps") released by public
	bodies.</p> 

	<p>As more and more data about our lives moves online, we must ensure
	that this data is well protected. Where public bodies store personal
	data outside their own computer systems, such data must be subject to
	the same or stricter data protection rules as those which apply in the
	territory where the data was created.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p>
 - ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring that all
   publicly financed software, including applications for mobile
   devices, be made publicly available under Free Software licenses</p>

<p> - regarding procurement, ask the Commission to propose legislation
   requiring public bodies to include exit costs into the total cost
   of any software or hosting solution they acquire</p>

 <p>- ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring public bodies
   to provide, on request, information to any citizen about the
   jurisdiction in which her or his personal data is stored.</p>
</blockquote>

<!-- Consumer rights and device sovereignty -->
   
	<h2>Consumer rights and device sovereignty</h2>
   	
	<p>We increasingly rely on computers for most functions of our daily
	lives, whether they are smartphones, cars, or thermostats. Citizens
	need to be in full control of how these devices operate.</p>
	
	<p>In particular, citizens need to have the freedom to modify and
	exchange the software running on these devices. They must also be
	able to control which data these devices gather, and with whom this
	data is shared.</p>

	<p>Lawmakers must ensure that consumers have the possibility to modify
	and exchange the software on all computing devices they own. They need
	to strengthen consumer rights by giving citizens easy recourse against
	manufacturers and distributors preventing them from modifying the
	software on their devices.</p>

	<p>With products such as electronic books, movies and computer games,
	vendors frequently impose arbitrary restrictions on consumers. These
	for example prevent consumers from selling or lending the products
	they have bought. Vendors often achieve this by claiming that they are
	merely selling a license to use the product, rather than the product
	itself. Such restrictions are grossly unfair to consumers, and
	lawmakers must put a stop to them.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p>
   - ask the Commission to propose legislation strengthening consumers
    rights, by requiring that consumers must be enabled to modify and
    exchange the software on any computing device they buy or
    otherwise have permanent possession of</p>
<p>
   - ask the Commission to propose legislation to ensure that
    consumers can make use of digital goods which they have acquired
    within the full scope of copyright exceptions and limitations</p>
</blockquote>

<!-- Privacy, surveillance and cryptography -->

<h2>Privacy, surveillance and cryptography</h2>
   	
	<p>Without privacy and anonymity there can be no democratic
	discourse. In a free country, citizens need to be able to talk to
	each other without fear of being spied upon.</p>

	<p>To this end, citizens rely both on the rule of law and on
	technology. Policy makers need to protect their citizens against
	surveillance, foster the development of tools that protect citizens'
	privacy, and promote the use of such tools.</p>

	<p>In the face of pervasive internet surveillance, policy makers should
	promote the use of encryption in all spheres of communication. All
	public bodies must offer the citizens they serve the means to
	communicate through encrypted and secured channels.</p>

	<p>Policy makers should prioritise the development of Free Software
	encryption tools for general use, and ensure that public funds are
	made available for this purpose.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p>- ensure that Free Software-based encryption technologies come into
   standard usage within the Parliament, as well as the Commission and
   the Council.</p>
<p> - ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring all public
   bodies to offer citizens the opportunity to communicate with them
   through channels secured by encryption technologies</p>
<p> - adopt an investigation report on potential breaches of law
   committed by domestic and foreign intelligence agencies through
   pervasive communications surveillance.</p>
</blockquote>

<!-- Distributed systems -->

<h2>Distributed systems</h2>
   	
	<p>The internet has driven innovation and democratic participation
	precisely because it has no central point of control. The trend
	towards centralised services is endangering this fundamental
	advantage.</p> 

	<p>In order to safeguard the freedom of the citizens of the information
	society, we need to build distributed systems for all important
	functions on top of the internet.</p>

	<p>Policy makers should promote the development and use of distributed
	systems to replace services which are currently centralised to a high
	degree, such as social networking. They should ensure that appropriate
	public funds are allocated to this task.</p>

	<p>Policy makers should promote the development of Open Standards through
	which such systems can interact with each other. Policy makers should
	promote the use of these tools by using them for their own
	interactions with the public, and avoid centralised services wherever
	possible.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p> - ask European funding agencies, and in particular the European
   Commission, to focus funding on the development of distributed
   communication platforms based on Free Software and Open Standards.</p>
<p> - ask the Parliament's administration to support MEPs in routinely
   making use of distributed platforms, especially in social media.</p>
</blockquote> 

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
