<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Internet policy - Only with Free Software?</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  

    <h1>Panel discussion: Internet policy - Only with Free Software?</h1>

    <p id="introduction">

   On September 12, the FSFE will host a panel discussion "Internet policy - Only with Free Software?" including representatives from the youth organisations of the biggest political parties that run for the Bundestag in 2013. The panel discussion will be from 19 - 21 hours with a following stand-up reception. The event takes place in the Büro 2.0, Weigandufer 45, 12059 Berlin. The event is public and attendance for no cost.</p>
    
    <h2>Participants</h2>

<p>(in alphabetical order)</p>
    <ul>
	<li>Anton Eplinus (Grüne Jugend) aus Hamburg, stellvertretender Koordinator Fachforum Netzpolitik und Kultur</li>
	<li>Florian Häber ('solid), Mitglied im Bundessprecher_innenrat</li>
	<li>Kateryna Kremkova (Jungsozialisten), Arbeitsbereich Netzpolitik im Landesvorstand Berlin</li>
	<li>Thomas Möhle (Junge Liberale) - Bundesarbeitskreis Netzpolitik und Medien, Stv. Landesvorsitzender der Jungen Liberalen Niedersachsen e.V.</li>
	<li>Christian Wohlrabe (Junge Union), Referent für Netzpolitik und Digitalisierung bei der JU Deutschland</li>
	<li>Florian Zumkeller-Quast (Junge Piraten), Vorsitzender der Jungen Piraten</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Organisation</h2>

    <p>The panel discussion and the participants will be introduced and moderated by the FSFE. In a second part, the discussion will be opened for public and attendees are free to ask their own questions regarding the given topic. If you like to attend, please make our organisation easy by leaving a note of your attendance via our <a href="https://public.pad.fsfe.org/p/paneldiscussion-btw2013-teilnahme">Etherpad</a>.   </p>
    
  </body>

</html>


<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
