<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Libre Software Meeting, Brussels, Panel discussion on Technology, Power and Freedom</title>
  </head>
  <body>
   
<p>From July 6-11, 2013, several thousand people will come to Brussels from all over Europe to participate in the Libre Software meeting, one of Europe's largest conferences for Free Software developers, technology entrepreneurs and civil society activists. On July 9 FSFE organises a discussion panel on <strong>Technology, Power and Freedom</strong> with some of the world's foremost advocates of digital freedom and leading members of the European Parliament (MEP) on digital issues.</p>

	<p> Participants will be Karsten Gerloff (FSFE), Eben Moglen (Columbia University), Judith Sargentini (MEP Greens/EFA), Christel Schaldemose (MEP S&amp;D -tbc), Richard M Stallman (FSF), Nils Torvalds (MEP ALDE), Ioannis A. Tsoukalas (MEP EPP).</p>

	<p>Language of the discussion: English<br />
	Location: Université Libre de Bruxelles, Room K.1.105<br />
	Date and time: Tuesday July the 9th, 11:00-12:20
	</p> 


	

<h3>Abstract</h3>
	  
	<p><em> As lawmakers are grappling with the multitude of changes brought about by technology and the Internet, they often face pressure to restrict the potential of the Internet in the name of security. Digital activists are attacking censorship, building distributed networks, and writing software that enables them to be in full control of their own computers.</em></p>
	<p><em>How can we use Free Software to build strong democratic institutions <br /> How can we get better at sharing knowledge for progress? <br /> Are citizens naked and alone in the age of "cloud computing"?<br /> What rules do we need to secure freedom in the digital society?</em></p>



 </body>

</html>


<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
