<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>"Free software = World Heritage" project: work done</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <div align="center">
    <h2>Work done</h2>
  </div>

  <ul>
  <li><a href="Unesco-memworld-answer.jpg">UNESCO "World memory" answer (october 2003, in French)</a></li>
  <li><p><a href="http://portal.unesco.org/ci/ev.php?URL_ID=6872&amp;URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&amp;URL_SECTION=201&amp;reload=1048114900">Nominations for World Memory in 2003</a><br/>
  "France - Déclaration universelle des droits de l'homme et du citoyen de 1789<br/>
  (...)<br/>
  Worldwide - <a href="http://portal.unesco.org/ci/ev?URL_ID=7548&amp;URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&amp;URL_SECTION=201&amp;reload=1044355008">Free Software</a>"</p></li>

  <li><p>Nomination form sent for UNESCO <a href="http://portal.unesco.org/ci/ev.php?URL_ID=1538&amp;URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&amp;URL_SECTION=201&amp;reload=1037357654">World Memory</a> Register (december 2002)</p></li>

  <li><p><a href="lsm2002/index.en.html">Action at LSM2002 (invitation to UNESCO director, round table, etc)</a></p></li>

  <li><p>First contacts with P. Aigrain, Head of Sector "Software
  Technologies" at the European Commission, and A. Abid from "Memory of the world" UNESCO project</p></li>

  <li><p>Interview of Benoît Sibaud by French magazine Newbiz</p></li>

  <li><p>From another interview of Richard M. Stallman at LinuxExpo,
  Paris, on January 30th 2002. Available on the Web at
  <a href="http://www.colibrix.org/sound/Conference_Richard_Stallman_30_janvier_2002_32kb_stereo.mp3">colibrix.org</a> (question and answer were in French)</p>
  
  <p>"To serve humanity with software, software should be free,
  because software belong to human knowledge. Proprietary software do not
  belongs to human knowledge."</p></li>
  
  <li><p>First contacts with UNESCO and French national commission</p></li>
  <li><p>Question to Richard M. Stallman with his interview on
  January 27th 2002 at LinuxExpo, Paris. Avalaible on the Web at
  <a href="http://media.april.org/audio/RMS-27012002/RMS-27012002.ogg">April
  (question and answer were in French)</a></p>
  
  <p>In France, a work group was set to ask the UNESCO to schedule free
  software as world human heritage.</p>
  <p>RMS: What that means exactly?</p>
  <p>It would be a official recognition from UNESCO who is an
  international organisation that free software is a world human heritage and
  should be protected as art work, like say, statues.</p>
  <p>RMS: Protected from software patents ?</p>
  <p>Protected from everything, from appropriation in general. What do you
  think of this initiative?</p>
  <p>RMS: As a general idea, it seems OK to me. It is really a human
  heritage. As a legal decision, I'd see the exact implications before giving
  an opinion. Because on details there could be problems. It is a question of
  details. That's why I asked what that means exactly. Because if it is a
  general idea, no problem, if it is a legal decision with specific
  consequences, one should see what will happen.</p></li>
  </ul>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
