<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
    <title>Policy goals 2014 - 2019 - Consumer rights - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article" microformats="h-entry">
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Policy goals 2014 - 2019</a></p>
    <h1>Consumer rights and device sovereignty</h1>
	
    
    <!-- <h2>Links</h2>
    
    <alllinks/> -->


<!-- Consumer rights and device sovereignty -->
   	
	<p>We increasingly rely on computers for most functions of our daily
	lives, whether they are smartphones, cars, or thermostats. Citizens
	need to be in full control of how these devices operate.</p>
	
	<p>In particular, citizens need to have the freedom to modify and
	exchange the software running on these devices. They must also be
	able to control which data these devices gather, and with whom this
	data is shared.</p>

	<p>Lawmakers must ensure that consumers have the possibility to modify
	and exchange the software on all computing devices they own. They need
	to strengthen consumer rights by giving citizens easy recourse against
	manufacturers and distributors preventing them from modifying the
	software on their devices.</p>

	<p>With products such as electronic books, movies and computer games,
	vendors frequently impose arbitrary restrictions on consumers. These
	for example prevent consumers from selling or lending the products
	they have bought. Vendors often achieve this by claiming that they are
	merely selling a license to use the product, rather than the product
	itself. Such restrictions are grossly unfair to consumers, and
	lawmakers must put a stop to them.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>We want the EU and its member states to:</b></p>
  
<p>
   - ask the Commission to propose legislation strengthening consumers
    rights, by requiring that consumers must be enabled to modify and
    exchange the software on any computing device they buy or
    otherwise have permanent possession of</p>
<p>
   - ask the Commission to propose legislation to ensure that
    consumers can make use of digital goods which they have acquired
    within the full scope of copyright exceptions and limitations</p>
</blockquote>

  </body>
<sidebar promo="our-work">
	<h2>Our policy goals</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/public-bodies.html">Public bodies</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/privacy.html">Privacy, surveillance and cryptography</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/distributed-systems.html">Distributed systems</a></li>
	</ul>
</sidebar>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
