<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
    <title>Policy goals 2014 - 2019 - Distributed systems - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Policy goals 2014 - 2019</a></p>
    <h1>Distributed systems</h1>
    
    <!-- <h2>Links</h2>
    
    <alllinks/> -->

<!-- Distributed systems -->
   	
	<p>The internet has driven innovation and democratic participation
	precisely because it has no central point of control. The trend
	towards centralised services is endangering this fundamental
	advantage.</p> 

	<p>In order to safeguard the freedom of the citizens of the information
	society, we need to build distributed systems for all important
	functions on top of the internet.</p>

	<p>Policy makers should promote the development and use of distributed
	systems to replace services which are currently centralised to a high
	degree, such as social networking. They should ensure that appropriate
	public funds are allocated to this task.</p>

	<p>Policy makers should promote the development of Open Standards through
	which such systems can interact with each other. Policy makers should
	promote the use of these tools by using them for their own
	interactions with the public, and avoid centralised services wherever
	possible.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p> - ask European funding agencies, and in particular the European
   Commission, to focus funding on the development of distributed
   communication platforms based on Free Software and Open Standards.</p>
<p> - ask the Parliament's administration to support MEPs in routinely
   making use of distributed platforms, especially in social media.</p>
</blockquote> 

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
