<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
    <title>Policy goals 2014 - 2019 - Privacy - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Policy goals 2014 - 2019</a></p>
    <h1>Privacy, surveillance and cryptography</h1>
	
    
    <!-- <h2>Links</h2>
    
    <alllinks/> -->
 

<!-- Privacy, surveillance and cryptography -->

   	
	<p>Without privacy and anonymity there can be no democratic
	discourse. In a free country, citizens need to be able to talk to
	each other without fear of being spied upon.</p>

	<p>To this end, citizens rely both on the rule of law and on
	technology. Policy makers need to protect their citizens against
	surveillance, foster the development of tools that protect citizens'
	privacy, and promote the use of such tools.</p>

	<p>In the face of pervasive internet surveillance, policy makers should
	promote the use of encryption in all spheres of communication. All
	public bodies must offer the citizens they serve the means to
	communicate through encrypted and secured channels.</p>

	<p>Policy makers should prioritise the development of Free Software
	encryption tools for general use, and ensure that public funds are
	made available for this purpose.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p>- ensure that Free Software-based encryption technologies come into
   standard usage within the Parliament, as well as the Commission and
   the Council.</p>
<p> - ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring all public
   bodies to offer citizens the opportunity to communicate with them
   through channels secured by encryption technologies</p>
<p> - adopt an investigation report on potential breaches of law
   committed by domestic and foreign intelligence agencies through
   pervasive communications surveillance.</p>
</blockquote>

<h3>See also our other policy goals:</h3>
    	<ul>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/public-bodies.html">Public bodies</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/consumer-rights.html">Consumer rights and device sovereignty</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/distributed-systems.html">Distributed systems</a></li>
	</ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
