<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
<head>
    <title>Policy goals 2014 - 2019 - Public Bodies - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals.html">Policy goals 2014 - 2019</a></p>
    <h1>Public Bodies</h1>
	
 
<!-- Public bodies -->   
    <p>
	Free Software (or "open source software") - computer programs which
	anyone can use, study, share, and improve - is crucial to achieving
	these goals. Free Software powers the Internet and provides the
	foundation for most successful businesses in the information
	technology industry. Only with Free Software can users fully
	understand what a computer program actually does, which data it sends
	where, and how it generates its results.</p>

	<p>Public bodies form a crucial infrastructure of democratic
	states. Parliaments, government organizations and administrative
	bodies must be fully under the control of the state, which in turn is
	governed by its citizens through democratic processes.</p> 

	<p>In order to achieve these goals, public bodies must be in full control
	of the software and the computer systems which they use, and of the
	data which they gather, store, and process. In order to fulfill their
	obligations towards the citizens they serve, public bodies must use
	only <a href ="/freesoftware/basics/summary.en.html">Free Software</a>, and store
	their data in file formats that are compliant with <a href = "/activities/os/def.en.html">Open
	Standards</a>.</p> 

	<p>Where public bodies make use of software as a service (SaaS or "cloud"
	solutions), they must additionally avoid vendor lock-in and ensure
	that they can easily switch between different providers of such
	services. They must ensure that data is portable between providers,
	that it is stored in file formats compliant with Open Standards, and
	that the solution does not require non-free (client) software.
	Public bodies are financed through taxes. They must make sure to spend
	these funds wisely. If organizations are locked into any particular
	vendor's offerings, they will end up paying monopoly prices for
	software and related services.</p>

	<p>Instead, public bodies must procure their software and
	computer-related services only through open, competitive calls for
	tender which are open to all bidders. Public bodies must figure future
	exit costs into the price of each bid, as well as the cost of any
	licenses they would need to acquire in addition to the solution being
	offered. They should purchase only devices on which they can freely
	modify the software, and install operating systems and other programs
	of their choice.</p>

	<p>When public bodies develop software, or pay for software to be
	developed, the resulting programs must be released to the public under
	a Free Software license. Citizens and businesses have paid for this
	software with their taxes, so they should have access to it. This
	includes smartphone applications ("apps") released by public
	bodies.</p> 

	<p>As more and more data about our lives moves online, we must ensure
	that this data is well protected. Where public bodies store personal
	data outside their own computer systems, such data must be subject to
	the same or stricter data protection rules as those which apply in the
	territory where the data was created.</p>

<blockquote>
<p><b>In the next legislative term, the European Parliament should:</b></p>
  
<p>
 - ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring that all
   publicly financed software, including applications for mobile
   devices, be made publicly available under Free Software licenses</p>

<p> - regarding procurement, ask the Commission to propose legislation
   requiring public bodies to include exit costs into the total cost
   of any software or hosting solution they acquire</p>

 <p>- ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring public bodies
   to provide, on request, information to any citizen about the
   jurisdiction in which her or his personal data is stored.</p>
</blockquote>

  </body>

<sidebar promo="our-work">
	<h2>Other policy goals</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/consumer-rights.html">Consumer rights and device sovereignty</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/privacy.html">Privacy, surveillance and cryptography</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/distributed-systems.html">Distributed systems</a></li>
	</ul>
</sidebar>


  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
