<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Unitary patent: model letter for companies</title>
  </head>

  <body>
	<h1>Unitary patent: model letter for companies</h1>

<p>Dear [INSERT MEP'S NAME],</p>

<p>We are writing to you today in your capacity as a member of the
European Parliament's Legal Affairs committee. On September 17 and 18
this committee will discuss the European Commission's proposal for a
unitary patent system. We have some concerns which we would like to
share with you regarding this matter.</p>

<p>[INSERT your company's name, what it does, and how the patent system
concerns you.]</p>

<p>The large number of patent-related lawsuits in the smartphone industry
in recent years has made it abundantly clear that patents on software
hurt innovation rather than helping it. The surprisingly high damages
awarded to Apple on a doubtful basis in its lawsuit against Samsung
illustrate how patents on software create dangerous uncertainty for
companies and damage competition.</p>

<br />

<p>In its current form, the proposal would mean that Parliament hands
control over an important part of Europe's innovation policy to the
European Patent Organisation, without proper supervision or
control.</p>

<p>We ask you to ensure that the patent system remains under the
political control of the European Parliament. Please support the
relevant amendments proposed for the patent package, with the numbers
58, 59, 62, 77, 80 and 90.</p>

<br />

<p>By handing the sole jurisdiction over patent disputes to a central
court without proper checks and balances, the proposal as it currently
stands also poses a grave risk to due process for everyone involved in
patent litigation.</p>

<p>Please ensure that all parties in patent litigation cases have
recourse to their national courts, and can ultimately appeal to the
European Court of Justice. The amendments designed to achieve this are
numbered 59, 80 and 81.</p>

<br />

<p>Finally, the patent package in its current form risks cementing the
EPO's practice of awarding patents on computer programs. As
illustrated recently by the Apple/Samsung case, software patents
create unnecessary uncertainty for investors and risks to competition,
while doing nothing to promote innovation. In this area, the EPO's
practice has diverged markedly from the letter and spirit of the
European Patent Convention's Article 52 (c).</p>

<p>Parliament needs to effectively ensure that computer programs are
excluded from patentability. Please make it clear that a computer
program cannot be patented just because it runs on generic data
processing hardware.</p>

<p>The European Parliament has already rejected patents on software
twice, on September 24th, 2003 and on July 6th, 2005. For the sake of
Europe's IT economy, we ask you to stand by these decisions, and
support the amendments numbered 63 and 64.</p>

<br />

<p>Thank you for considering our concerns. We remain available for any
questions you may have.</p>

<br />

<p>Sincerely,</p>

<p>[INSERT NAME]</p>

</body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2012-09-07 18:34:51 +0200 (mer. 05 sept. 2012) $ $Author: leobaillard $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
