<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html>
 <head>
    <title>PDFreaders - Follow Up</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  <p id="category"><a href="pdfreaders.html">Free Software PDF Readers</a></p>
<h1>PDFreaders - Follow Up</h1>

 
<p>In November 2010, during the <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders">the PDFreaders
  campaign</a>, FSFE has sent a <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">letter</a> to all the public
institutions on our <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">buglist</a>
asking them to either remove their advertising for proprietary software or run
concurrent advertising for Free Software, so that website users realise they
have a choice.</p>

<p>Some of the institutions already answered to our requests but others have
not answered yet. As we, as Free Software activists and European citizens,
spent time and money to send these letters, we want to get an answer, whatever
it would be.</p>

<p>Here is how you can get active and send some emails to the institutions of
your country asking them to remove advertisements to non-free software from
their websites.</p>

<h2>Check before</h2>

<p>Before start sending emails take a look to the website of the institution
reported in the <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">buglist</a> and
check if they have removed the advertise. If you do not see any advertise do
the following:</p>

<ul>

    <li>Check with a search engine if another "adobe" or "acrobat" is on the
    domain, (e.g. with site:www.example.com). If there is one, update the
    buglist with the new URL in "bugs-XY.xml" (you can also write an e-mail to
    <a href="mailto:web@fsfeurope.org">our web team</a> if you have no access
    to modify the website).</li>

    <li>If there is none, write to <a
      href="mailto:pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org">pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org</a>,
    report your success and ask to mark the bug as fixed.</li>

    <li>Then write a short thank you e-mail to public body.</li>

</ul>

<p>If the advertise is still visible on the website of the public body you can
get active by sending an email <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">based on our model letter</a> to
them.</p>

<h2>Always be kind</h2>

<p>Getting angry will not help at all. We sent a letter making a kind and
motivated proposal. What we have to do now is to keep the same attitude and
friendly ask the institutions to take our letter into consideration. It may
happen that someone will respond you with a rude criticism: that is not
important! Always be kind and take into account that our goal is to convince
them to correct an obvious neutrality problem on their website. Do not answer
to criticism not related to our goal.</p>

<h2>Find the right person to contact</h2>

<p>Take some time to look at their website. If you find the <strong>webmaster's
  email</strong>, that is certainly the best person to contact.  If the website
has been made by an external company, you will probably get nothing from them:
it is not in their interests to let the public institution know that the site
they have made has a problem of neutrality.</p>

<p>If you are not able to find the webmaster, you could look for a
<strong>webform for contact</strong>. Be also aware that many public
institutions have a <strong>Public Relations Office</strong> and that some of
them should keep track of the emails they receive as for the standard
letters.</p>

<p>If you are not able to find any of above mentioned contacts, you may write
to the <strong>Mayor or to the Administration office</strong> of the
institution. These people certainly have the greatest powers in the
institutions, but keep in mind that they could be very busy and they would not
directly modify the site. So, to get a reply from them can take much time.</p>

<h2>Choose the right subject for your email</h2>

<p>People employed in public institutions receive dozens of emails every day
(including spam). We want them to read our email, so it is important to choose
the right subject. A good subject could be: <strong>"Unanswered letter of FSFE
  from 2010"</strong>.</p>

<h2>Write your email</h2>

<p>Write your email to remind them about the letter we have sent. If you want,
you can use <strong><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">our model
    letter and translations</a></strong>, but, please, remember to change the
part inside the brace { }</p>

<h2>What's happening next?</h2>

<p>After 15 days check again the website if something has changed.</p>

<p><strong>CASE 1: nothing has changed</strong>: Do not worry, even Rome was
not built in a day. Write them again and check again after 15 days. You could
also try to write to a different email address.</p>

<p><strong>CASE 2: the bug has been removed</strong>: Check if there are other
bug pages on their website. If so, write them again. If not, you were
successful! Write an email to thank them for their efforts and also <a
  href="mailto:pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org">inform us</a> about your success so
we can update the <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">buglist</a>.</p>

<p><strong>CASE 3: you received an email from the institution with some
  questions</strong>: Some institutions do not understand our letter.  Reply to
them, always be kind and try explain our proposal. If you do not know what to
answer, <a href="mailto:pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org">contact us</a>.</p>

<p><strong>CASE 4: you received an email from the institution that told you
  that they have corrected the page but the page is still unchanged</strong>.
Wait for few days then write them again.</p>

<h2>Final considerations</h2>

<p>It is easy to achieve good results for the PDFreaders campaign in your
country. Before receiving our letter, many of the institutions have not even
realised that they were advertising any software on their website and many
of them will thank you to point it out. So, the hardest part is to capture
their attention. To do this, we need your patience and your determination. </p>

</body>
 <timestamp>$Date: 2010-09-07 16:38:57 +0200 (Tue, 07 Sep 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>

</html>

