<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software PDF Readers</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">Free Software PDF Readers</a>

    <h1>Let's get rid of non-free PDF advertisement</h1>

    <p class="background">What would you think about a sign on the highway
    saying “You need a Volkswagen to drive on this road. Contact your
    Volkswagen dealer for a gratis test drive – Your Government”?</p>

    <h2>Situation</h2>

    <p>When it comes to software that opens PDF files, many public sector
    organisations do this every day. With the pdfreaders.org campaign we have
    turned the spotlight on government organisations who behave this way,
    exposing how frequent such advertisements for non-free software are. With
    the help of activists across Europe, we are contacting these organisations
    and explain them how to improve their websites so that they respect our
    freedom.</p>

    <h2>PDFreaders.org</h2>

    <p>First FSFE's volunteers created pdfreaders.org. All of the PDF readers on
    pdfreaders.org are Free Software, respecting your basic four freedoms to
    use, study, share and improve them. This gives you control over your
    computer and helps protect your privacy.</p>

    <h2>Contacting public bodies</h2>

    <p>With the help of our Fellows and of hundreds other Free Software
    activists, we have collected over 2000 bug reports (l.fsfe.org/pdfrb). FSFE has sent a letter
    to all the public administrations on our list asking them to either remove
    their advertising for proprietary software or at least run equal
    advertising for Free Software, so that users of their websites realise that
    they have a choice. Currently more than 550 public bodies changed their
    websites accordingly.</p>

    <h2>Petition to remove advertisement for non-free software</h2>

    <p>Our "Petition For The Removal Of Proprietary Software Advertising On
    Public Institution Websites" was signed by over 90 organisations, 60
    businesses and 2690 individuals.</p>

    <p>If you have not signed our petition yet, do it now under l.fsfe.org/pdfrp!</p>

    <h2>What we want to do</h2>

    <p>We will maintain pdfreaders.org. We will continue to contact the remaining
    organisations, and remind them to fix their bugs. Therefore we will continue to
    improve our documentation how to contact public bodies, as well as
    information how to contact companies.</p>

    <h2>Contact institutions on your own</h2>

    <p>If you discover a page of a public institution or administration that
    advertises non-free software and is not yet or does not appear as resolved on
    the list, do not hesitate to contact them on your own (http://l.fsfe.org/pdfrf). For this 
    purpose you can use our model letter (http://l.fsfe.org/pdfrl): just change the address, the
    URL, and the name. Then send it out per mail or post.</p>

    <p>Inform us about the institutions you are contacting, and the progress
    you are making. We will publish the positive results alongside with the
    other reported institutions.</p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstrasse 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2013-02-18 16:33:32 +0100 (Mon, 18 Feb 2013) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
