<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html>
 <head>
    <title>PDFreaders - Petition</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Petition For The Removal Of Proprietary Software Advertising On Government Websites</h1>

    <p>We, the undersigned, hereby
    state that we expressly and unequivocally oppose the advertising of
    proprietary software products on government websites.</p>

    <p>Such advertising breaches impartiality and encourages citizens to employ
    technologies that unnecessarily
      restrict their freedom. The role of government is not to support
    certain market participants and not others, particularly when doing so
    works to maintain the monopolies of global software companies.</p>

    <p>In explanations of how to use digital resources that they provide,
    government agencies should clarify that multiple methods are available, and
    favour technologies
      which do not restrict users' digital rights; by linking to <a
      title="How to link to PDFreaders.org"
      href="http://pdfreaders.org/graphics.html">PDFreaders.org</a>, for
    example.</p>
    
    <p>Free Software guarantees the users right to use (for any purpose), study
    (without secrets), share (with anyone), and improve the software that they
    use. Governments should publish their documents in formats that can be read
    with Free Software. Indeed, many Free Software applications exist for
    reading such documents.Governments should lead citizens to freedom, and
    encourage them to make use of these applications.  </p>

    <p>Sincerely,</p>

    <p>The Undersigned</p>
    
    <hr />

    <form action="/cgi-bin/pdfpetition.pl" method="post">
      <p>
        <label for="name">Name <span class="required-asterisk">*</span></label>
        <input id="name" name="name" type="text" />
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <label for="surname">surname <span class="required-asterisk">*</span></label>
        <input id="surname" name="surname" type="text" />
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <label for="email">Your E-mail <span class="required-asterisk">*</span></label>
        <input id="email" name="email" type="email" />
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <label for="email">On Belhalf of</label>
        <input id="group" name="group" type="text" />
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <label for="country">Country of the institution (in English) <span class="required-asterisk">*</span></label>
        <select id="country" name="country">
	  <option>Aland</option>
	  <option>Albania</option>
	  <option>Austria</option>
	  <option>Belarus</option>
	  <option>Belgium</option>
	  <option>Bosnia and Herzegovina</option>
	  <option>Bulgaria</option>
	  <option>Croatia</option>
	  <option>Cyprus</option>
	  <option>Czech Republic</option>
	  <option>Denmark</option>
	  <option>Estonia</option>
	  <option>Faroe Islands</option>
	  <option>Finland</option>
	  <option>France</option>
	  <option>Germany</option>
	  <option>Greece</option>
	  <option>Hungary</option>
	  <option>Iceland</option>
	  <option>Ireland</option>
	  <option>Italy</option>
	  <option>Latvia</option>
	  <option>Liechtenstein</option>
	  <option>Lithuania</option>
	  <option>Luxembourg</option>
	  <option>Macedonia</option>
	  <option>Malta</option>
	  <option>Moldova</option>
	  <option>Montenegro</option>
	  <option>Netherlands</option>
	  <option>Norway</option>
	  <option>Poland</option>
	  <option>Portugal</option>
	  <option>Romania</option>
	  <option>Russian Federation</option>
	  <option>Serbia</option>
	  <option>Slovakia</option>
	  <option>Slovenia</option>
	  <option>Spain</option>
	  <option>Sweden</option>
	  <option>Switzerland</option>
	  <option>Turkey</option>
	  <option>Ukraine</option>
	  <option>United Kingdom</option>
	</select>
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <label>Receive Newsletter</label>
        
	<input name="newsletter" type="checkbox" checked="checked" />
      </p>
      
      <p class="n">
        <label for="url">If you're a bot please enter something here to have our system happily ignore all of your efforts</label>
        <input id="url" name="url" type="text" />
      </p>
      
      <p>
        <input type="submit" value="Sign Petition" />
      </p>
      
    </form>
    
    <hr />
    
    <p><em>We update the list of signatories several times a day, so please allow some time for your signature to appear.</em></p>
	
	<h2>List of signatories</h2>
	
  </body>
  
  <text id="osig">Businesses</text>
  <text id="bsig">Organizations</text>
  <text id="isig">Individuals</text>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-09-07 16:38:57 +0200 (Tue, 07 Sep 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
