<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Campaigns - FSFE</title>
  <meta content="Free software campaigns in Europe include; PDFreaders.org, “Ask your candidates”, Document Freedom Day and Free Your Android. " name="description" />
<meta content="Free Software Open Standards politics business law society PDFreaders.org “Ask your candidates” Document Freedom Day Free Your Android Towards a World Intellectual Wealth Organization Unlocking education campaign fight join non-profit non-governmental organisation" name ="keywords"/>
  </head>

  <body class="subsite">
    <h1 class="heading">Campaigns</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
    <p>As a non-profit, non-governmental organisation, Free Software Foundation
    Europe works to create general understanding and support for Free Software
    and Open Standards in politics, business, law and society at large.
    Therefore we run the following campaigns. You can help us with them!</p>

    </div>
    
    <ul id="campaigns" class="subheadings">
    <li>
      <h3><a href="/campaigns/publiccode/">Public Money? Public Code!</a></h3>
      <p>
        Why is software created using taxpayers' money not released as
        Free Software? We want legislation requiring that publicly
        financed software developed for the public sector be made
        publicly available under a Free and Open Source Software
        licence. If it is public money, it should be public code as
        well. As our <a href="https://publiccode.eu/">open letter</a>
        says: "Code paid by the people should be available to the
        people!"
      </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
      <h3><a href="https://savecodeshare.eu/">Save Code Share</a></h3>
      <p>
        This initiative launched by the FSFE and OpenForum Europe in
        September 2017 aims to bring awareness about the unintended
        impact of Article 13 of the proposed Copyright Directive on
        software sharing platforms. Through research and raising public
        awareness the initiative will help decision makers to create a
        proper regulatory framework.
      </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
      <h3><a href="/activities/routers/">Router Freedom</a></h3>
      <p>
        Everybody should have the right to use the router or modem they want 
        to. In many countries, this isn't possible because internet providers 
        forbid them to execute their right of choice. This causes severe 
        freedom, privacy, and security problems. In Germany, we achieved an 
        important legal change but many European countries still need our 
        help.
      </p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <h3><a href="/activities/radiodirective/">EU Radio Lockdown Directive</a></h3>
      <p>
        An EU Directive restricts users to install Free Software on their 
        radio devices like routers and mobile phones. It forces device 
        manufacturers to assess the radio regulatory compliance for every 
        possible software solution. This may make it almost impossible for 
        people to secure their devices, and causes heavy disadvantages for 
        Free Software projects and small to medium-sized businesses.
      </p>
    </li>
    
    <li>
      	<h3><a href="/campaigns/generalpurposecomputing/secure-boot-analysis.html">"Secure Boot"</a></h3>

  <p>FSFE’s goal is to ensure that the owners of IT devices are always in full
  and sole control of them. This fundamental principle is recently being
  challenged.</p>

      </li>


    <li>
      	<h3><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">PDFreaders.org</a></h3>
  <p>
    Launched by the <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">Fellowship of
    FSFE</a>, <a href="http://pdfreaders.org/">pdfreaders.org</a> is a
    site providing information about Free Software PDF readers for all
    major operating systems.
  </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/elections/index.html">Elections
            </a></h3>
        <p>
          During local, federal, parliament elections, FSFE calls on
          all Free Software supporters to ask the parties’
          candidates about their positions on Free Software and Open
          Standards.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/ilovefs/index.html">I ♥ Free Software</a></h3>     
        <p>
          Valentines Day is a celebration of love and affection between intimate
          companions. FSFE’s campaign try to make the opportunity to show you
          care about the people and Free Software that you love all year
          round.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
      	<h3><a href="/activities/android/android.html">Free Your Android!</a></h3>
      	
        <p>
		Android is a mostly free operating system mainly developed by Google.
		Unfortunately, the drivers for most devices and most applications from the “market” are non-free.
		This campaign collects information about
		<a href="/activities/android/android.html">running an Android system as free as possible</a>
		and tries to coordinate these efforts.
      	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
      	<h3><a href="/activities/drm/">DRM.info</a></h3>
      	
        <p>
      	  DRM.info is a collaborative platform initiated and maintained by
      	  FSFE to inform on the dangers of Digital Restrictions Management
      	  and show the concerns from various different groups.
          <a href="http://www.drm.info">DRM.info</a> contributors include digital liberty groups, consumer
      	  protection, net-activism and library organisations.
      	</p>
      </li>

    </ul>
    
  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
