<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-06-10">
<head>
  <title>GA 2009: Spanish Team Meeting &amp; Social Event</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>GA 2009: Spanish Team Meeting &amp; Social Event</h1>
<p newsteaser="yes">
FSFE's Spanish team is proud to invite all people interested in Free
Software to a team meeting in order to set the group's agenda for next
months. The meeting will take place alongside FSFE's 2009 General
Assembly in <a href="http://www.lacristalera.com/">Residencia La
Cristalera</a> near
<a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/?lat=40.8142&amp;lon=-3.7615&amp;zoom=14&amp;layers=B000FTF">Miraflores
de la Sierra</a>, Madrid. After the meeting there will be a Social
Event with the opportunity to meet and get to know various people from
FSFE's <a href="/about/team.html">Executive Team</a>
and <a href="/about/members.html">General Assembly</a> who have come
to <a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/?lat=40.8142&amp;lon=-3.7615&amp;zoom=14&amp;layers=B000FTF">Miraflores
de la Sierra</a>, Madrid, for the yearly meeting to discuss and decide
upon <a href="http://fsfe.org">FSFE</a>'s strategy for the coming
year.</p>
<p>
Recent events related to Free Software in Spain put issues of software
freedom into the focus of the media. FSFE's Spanish Team feels it is
time to dive deeper into action, and as a consequence a series of
events and projects are now being started, leading up to an official
presentation of FSFE and its Spanish Team in November.
</p>
<p>
To give an opportunity for new members to join and also strengthen the
existing team, FSFE has prepared a special meeting on the 20th of
June, to coincide with FSFE's 2009 General Assembly meeting.
</p>
<p>
The Spanish Group will present the aims, procedures and the agenda, followed 
by a round table to discuss the next steps. Everybody is invited to 
participate and to help shaping the future of Software in Spain and Europe 
towards more freedom. 
</p>
<p>
After the meeting, attendees will meet FSFE's General Assembly members
at social event at La Cristalera's gardens. It's a great opportunity
to get to know each other, to continue thinking about the bits and
bytes of freedom and to enjoy an entertaining evening with friends
and <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellows</a>.
</p>
<h2>FSFE Spanish Group Meeting in Miraflores, Madrid, 20th June</h2>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Reception</td>
<td> 16:30 h.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>FSFE's Spanish Team presentation</td>
<td> 17:00 h.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Round Table</td>
<td> 18:00 h.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Social Event together with GA members</td>
<td> 20:00 h.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


</body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
