<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-04-14">
<head>
  <title>FSFE seeking Executive Director</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE seeking Executive Director</h1>

<h2>Job description</h2>

<p>FSFE was established in 2001 as a multi-cultural distributed
 organisation with volunteers and staff distributed across various
 European countries. Its approach is that of a result driven NGO with
 emphasis on constructive dialogue for lasting political and legal
 change. As an environment FSFE has grown out of the Free Software
 community and is ideally suited to motivated individuals capable of
 driving projects and initiatives forward.</p>

<p newsteaser="yes">It will be the responsibility of the Executive Director to coordinate
 FSFE's day-to-day affairs through working with a mixed team of
 volunteers and employees. Further responsibilities include management
 of the organisational assets according to the priorities set by the
 General Assembly and coordination of the Executive Council.</p>

<h2>Responsibilities</h2>

<ul>

<li> Oversee the efficient and effective day-to-day operation of the
   organisation, including</li>
<ol>
   <li> Coordination of the Executive Council, consisting of Executive
      Director, President and Vice President;</li>
   <li> Coordination and motivation of mixed teams, including both
      volunteers and staff;</li>
   <li> Planning, budgeting and executing projects to reach strategic
      objectives of the organisation;</li>
   <li> Controlling the cash flow and budgeting of the organisation;</li>
   <li> Reporting to the General Assembly about fulfillment of strategic
      objectives, and potential adjustments during the year;</li>
   <li> Representation of the organisation towards the public;</li>
   <li> Fundraising and representation towards donors;</li>
</ol>

<li> Work with the General Assembly to determine priorities and identify
   ways to achieve objectives.</li>

</ul>

<h2>Qualification</h2>

<ul>
 <li> University degree, or similar</li>

 <li> Knowledge of Free Software Community</li>

 <li> Business experience and understanding of non-profit management</li>

 <li> Knowledge of financial management and accounting</li>

 <li> Knowledge of staff management</li>

 <li> Proficient in use of Free Software applications, such as GNU/Linux,
   OpenOffice.org and others.</li>

 <li> Proficient in English</li>

 <li> Additional languages are beneficial, especially German</li>
</ul>

<h2>Personality</h2>

<ul>

 <li> Good communicator and interpersonal skills</li>

 <li> Result-oriented team player</li>

 <li> Good organisation and structuring skills</li>

 <li> Problem solving ability</li>

 <li> Adaptability</li>

</ul>

<h2>Working Conditions</h2>

<ul>
<li> The executive director usually works in an office environment, but
   the mission of the organization may sometimes take them to non
   standard workplaces. Work from the home office is possible.</li>

 <li> The executive directors works a standard work week, but
   additionally will regularly have work on evenings, weekends, and
   overtime hours to accommodate activities such as meetings of the
   General Assembly and representing the organisation at public
   events.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Rewards</h2>

<ul>

<li> The position of Executive Director will provide many opportunities
   to work in a stimulating environment with people from different
   cultures on relevant issues that will continue to affect our
   societies for the decades to come.</li>

<li> FSFE is unique in its structure and work as a decentralised
   international organisation with different activities and a mix of
   enthusiastic volunteers and staff in various countries.</li>

<li> FSFE offers the opportunity to meet people from different areas of
   competency, and the chance to learn much about a variety of areas,
   such as technology, politics, and law.</li>

<li>FSFE provides a high-responsibility and high-opportunity
   environment for people who like to work self-motivated and enjoy to
   shape their own working environment and projects to a high degree.</li>

</ul>

<h2>Further Information</h2>

<ul>

<li> The legal statutes of FSFE, which also partially define the role of
   the Executive Director, are available online at
    <a href="/about/legal/constitution.html">http://fsfe.org/about/legal/constitution.en.html</a></li>

<li> FSFE's financial development over the past years is available at
    <a href="/about/funds/funds.html">http://fsfe.org/about/funds/funds.en.html</a></li>

</ul>

<h2>How to apply</h2>

<p>If you are interested in the position, please direct your
 application to the FSFE Executive Council at council -- AT --
 fsfeurope.org, including a current CV and a letter of
 motivation. Please provide all information
 in <a href="/activities/os/">Open Standards</a>
 and <a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/no-word-attachments.html">do
 not send Microsoft Word documents</a>.</p>

<p>We will review all applications and seek personal interviews with
 the most promising applicants. In case you are accepted for the
 position, you should be prepared to join the General Assembly 19-21
 June in Miraflores de la Sierra, Spain.</p>


</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
