<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-03-23">
<head>
<title>FSFE announces the second European Licensing and Legal Workshop for Free Software</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE announces the second European Licensing and Legal Workshop for Free Software</h1>

<p>2009-03-23, Dublin, Shane Coughlan, FSFE.</p>

<p newsteaser="yes">Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) today announces that the second European Licensing and Legal Workshop will be held at the Hotel Okura on the 23rd and the 24th of April 2009 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. This conference will provide a forum for discussions on supply chain management, compliance procedures, licence management, community interaction, and other legal issues related to the growth of the European Free Software market.</p>

<p>The European Licensing and Legal Workshop is an event held primarily for the members of the European Legal Network, a private, non-partisan network of 185 Free Software experts across 27 countries and 4 continents facilitated by FSFE.  There is limited space available at the event and attendance for non-network members is by invitation only. Projects and companies interested in participating should contact the FTF at ftf at fsfeurope.org.</p>

<p>The European Licensing and Legal Workshop is kindly supported by Bender von Haller Dragsted, Blackduck, Canonical, HP and Mozilla.</p>

<p>This event is one of the activities of FSFE's Freedom Task Force (FTF). The FTF is an infrastructure activity to help individuals, projects and businesses understand Free Software licensing and the opportunities that it presents. The FTF works in partnership with gpl-violations.org to deal with licence violations in the European arena.  The goal of the FTF is to foster best practice throughout the industry.</p>

<p>For more information about the FTF or the European Licensing and Legal Workshop please contact the FTF:</p>

<h2>About the Freedom Task Force</h2>

    <p>The Freedom Task Force is an activity run by Free Software Foundation 
     Europe to help people understand Free Software licensing and the 
     opportunities it presents.  We offer educational services, facilitate 
     larger infrastructure activities and manage FSFE's legal affairs.  
     Our goals are to share knowledge about Free Software law, to 
     safeguard the interests of Free Software projects, to connect 
     experts in this field and to help other groups achieve similar goals.
     We believe in positive, constructive dialogue and seek at all times 
     to support the long-term sustainability of Free Software.</p>

<p>The FTF's homepage can be found at <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf">http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf</a> and you can contact us via email: ftf @ fsfeurope.org</p>

<p>You can phone us at</p>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7 Ext. 22</li>
</ul>

<p>Press contact: Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator,  FSFE extension: 408</p>

<h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-governmental
organisation active in many European countries and involved in many global
activities. Access to software determines participation in a digital society.
To secure equal participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is
dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use,
study, modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>You will find further information about the work of the FSFE at <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">http://www.fsfeurope.org/</a>.</p>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7</li>
</ul>

<p><a href="/contact/contact.html">Other ways to get in touch</a> with FSFE.</p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
