<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-11-30">
<head>
	<title>Freedom Food: FSFE to cook for its donors</title>
</head>
<body>

	<h1>Freedom Food: FSFE to cook for its donors</h1>
 
<p newsteaser="yes">For this year's round of fundraising, the Free Software
Foundation Europe (FSFE) has cooked up something special. The biggest donor of
2009 will share a cooking session with FSFE's President and other members of
the organisation's executive team. FSFE is looking to raise 100,000 Euro for
the last quarter of 2009.</p>

<p>Free Software and cooking are both about creativity, skill and
enjoyment. "You can use recipes for any purpose, you can share
them with others, and you can make them better. So cooking is very
much like Free Software, which gives you the freedom to use,
study, share and improve it," says FSFE's President Karsten
Gerloff.</p>

<p>FSFE has been working for the Free Software community in Europe and beyond
since 2001. Thanks to its supporters, the organisation has been able to break
<a href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">proprietary
	monopolies</a> , defend European developers and users against <a
	href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">software patents</a>, and build the <a
	href="/projects/ftf">Freedom Task Force</a> into Europe's foremost expert
group on legal aspects of Free Software.</p>

<p>At the same time, the threats that FSFE is fighting on the behalf
of Free Software users and developers have never gone away.
Computer users are often still forced to use proprietary software.
Closed standards build walls that Free Software finds hard to
break. Interoperability in the European public sector is under
attack, as proprietary software companies continue to push their
interests in Europe and around the world.</p>

<p>These are just a few of the issues that the donor will be able to
discuss with senior FSFE staff. "A lot of us at FSFE are
passionate hobby chefs. We are looking forward to sharing a
creative time with supporters of Free Software," says Gerloff.</p>

<h2>The fine print</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Donations will be taken into account from January 1 until
	December 31, 2009.</li>
	<li>A location in Europe will be determined in coordination with
	the donor.</li>
  	<li>At least two senior FSFE staff will cook for (and happily
	dine with) up to four persons chosen by the donor.</li>
  	<li>Costs for accommodation and travel to the location of the
	dinner will be borne by FSFE.</li>
	<li>The list of the top three donors will be published on this website and
	be updated regularly.</li>
</ul>

</body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

