<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-09-21">
<head>
  <title>
        Free Software hits German election campaigns
  </title>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>Free Software hits German election campaigns</h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">
	The issue of <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>  has
	hit the run-up to the German elections. During a <a
		href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Bundestagswahl2009">campaign</a> launched by
	Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) politicians from many parties
	have recognised the potential of Free Software and Open Standards for Germany.
	In response to questions from supporters of FSFE, they explain that Free
	Software equals more competition, promotes innovation and provides cost
	savings.
   </p>

   <p>
	Free Software - such as the GNU/Linux operating system or the web browser
	Mozilla Firefox - can be used without restrictions, studied by anyone, be
	modified and passed on. "Free Software brings significant benefits for the
	economy" says <a href="/about/gerloff/gerloff.html">Karsten Gerloff</a>,
	president of FSFE. "On that basis Germany's small and medium enterprises
	are able to offer high quality services and create lasting value for our
	country. We are delighted that candidates are aware of this opportunity."
   </p>

   <p>
	Free Software is also an important prerequisite for equal opportunities in
	education. "Software is the cultural technique of the 21st century, "says
	<a href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.html">Matthias Kirschner</a>, Germany
	Coordinator of FSFE. "Everyone should have the opportunity to gain a basic
	understanding of this. It's good to see that FSFE's
	persistent work on this issue is paying off."
   </p>

   <p>
	Nevertheless, the parties lack a comprehensive approach
	for making the best of Free Software for Germany's economy
	and society. FSFE provides an  <a
		href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Bundestagswahl2009">analysis</a>
	of the parties' programmes, along with the questions
	answered by the candidates. FSFE will continue to serve as
	a competent partner of politicians and everybody
	interested in the potential of Free Software.
	</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
  <tags>
    <tag>de</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
