<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-11-06">
<head>
  <title>
	FSFE needs your support
  </title>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>FSFE needs your support</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
FSFE has been working for the Free Software community in Europe and beyond since 2001. We have received terrific amounts of support from our Fellows, our donors, FSFE's many volunteers, and the Free Software community at large.  Without you <a id="anc1" href="#not1">[1]</a>, we would not have been able to break proprietary monopolies <a id="anc2" href="#not2">[2]</a>, fight off software patents <a id="anc3" href="#not3">[3]</a>, and build the Freedom Task Force <a id="anc4" href="#not4">[4]</a> into Europe's foremost expert group on legal aspects of Free Software.
</p>
<p>
At the same time, the threats that FSFE is fighting on your behalf have never gone away. Many of us are still being forced to use proprietary software. Closed standards build walls that Free Software finds hard to break. Proprietary software companies continue to push their interests in Europe and around the world.
</p>
<p>
To help us fight those threats and keep going strong in these difficult economic times, FSFE is asking for your continued support. Now, more than ever, is the time to push ahead for Free Software. As budgets are being cut everywhere, more and more organisations are seriously thinking about alternatives to non-free programs. There are many policy makers who have understood the importance of open standards. Free Software businesses benefit from this climate and are growing fast.
</p>
<p>
FSFE needs financial <a id="anc5" href="#not5">[5]</a> and infrastructure <a id="anc6" href="#not6">[6]</a> donations to continue to operate and support the Free Software Community. If you've been thinking about becoming a Fellow <a id="anc7" href="#not7">[7]</a>, today is the day!
</p>
<p>
To make supporting us easier, FSFE has also built a set of services <a id="anc8" href="#not8">[8]</a> that companies can purchase from us. Please check out the many ways that you can use to support us. If you cannot find one that suits your needs, get in touch with us <a id="anc9" href="#not9">[9]</a>, and we will tailor a solution for you.
</p>
<p>
Thanks to your support, we've come very far together. Please walk with us for another step on the way to software freedom for all.
</p>
<p>
  <a id="not1" href="#anc1">[1]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus-2009.en.html">List of 2009 Supporters</a><br />
  <a id="not2" href="#anc2">[2]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.en.html">FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</a><br />
  <a id="not3" href="#anc3">[3]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/swpat/swpat.en.html">Software Patents in Europe</a><br />
  <a id="not4" href="#anc4">[4]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/ftf/">Freedom Task Force</a><br />
  <a id="not5" href="#anc5">[5]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/donate/donate.en.html">Donations to the FSFE</a><br />
  <a id="not6" href="#anc6">[6]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/donate/hardware.en.html">Hardware and Infrastructures Donations</a><br />
  <a id="not7" href="#anc7">[7]</a> <a href="https://fellowship.fsfe.org/login/join.php">Join the Fellowship</a><br />
  <a id="not8" href="#anc8">[8]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/com-pkg/com-pkg.en.html">FSFE's Commercial Services</a><br />
  <a id="not9" href="#anc9">[9]</a> <a href="http://fsfe.org/contact/local.en.html">Contacts</a><br />
</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
