<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-06-24">
<head>
  <title>Introducing FSFE's new president, vice president and executive team</title>
</head>
<body>

 <h1>Introducing FSFE's new president, vice president and executive team</h1>
 
 <p newsteaser="yes">During its General Assembly in Miraflores de la Sierra, Spain, the
members of FSFE elected new coordinators for several of the
organisation's activities, including strategy, legal and executive
coordination.</p>

<p>"The new team will continue FSFE's highly successful work with the
same long-term vision. We will work hard to justify the trust
which the Free Software community is putting into FSFE", says the
new president, Karsten Gerloff.</p>

<p>He continues: "Georg Greve and his team have done splendid work
over the past eight years, building FSFE out of nothing into an
organisation that is highly respected and trusted as an expert
group on Free Software, and as a reliable partner in policy making
and negotiations."</p>

<p>The newly elected Vice President Fernanda Weiden comments: "FSFE
has strong roots in the community. The people in this organisation
have a deep understanding not only of technology itself, but also
of its social and political aspects. Together, we can continue to
develop cutting-edge thinking on how we as a society handle
knowledge, and how we can best make the most of technology."</p>

<p>Christian Holz, appointed Executive Director, says: "Coming from a
business background and having worked with Free Software since the
early nineties, I am excited to become more involved in FSFE. The
team is highly motivated, and we have wonderful volunteers who
support our actions and cause."</p>

<p>Adriaan de Groot, FSFE's designated Freedom Task Force Coordinator:
"As Free Software has become mainstream, education and advice on its
legal aspects are getting more important every day. With the FTF, we
will continue to protect the interests of Free Software projects and
we stand ready to assist the community wherever our help may be
required."</p>

<p>Matthias Kirschner, newly hired to coordinate the Fellowship and the
German team, comments: "The Fellowship is key to building awareness
for Free Software in our society. It has become a magnet for smart,
dedicated people who care about Free Software, and an important
pillar for FSFE's financial stability. We will support FSFE's Fellows
and help them to make an impact wherever they are."</p>

<p>FSFE's founder and former president Georg Greve will remain in the
organisation as a volunteer. He expresses his full support for the new
team. "There is no doubt in my mind that these extraordinary people
are a dream team to ensure both continuity and change towards a
better, larger, and more successful FSFE. The past months of work to
prepare the ground with and for them have been a pleasure, and I look
forward to all the many achievements for software freedom this team is
going to bring about."</p>

<p></p>

<p>More information on the new team:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Karsten Gerloff: <a href="http://fsfe.org/about/gerloff/">http://fsfe.org/about/gerloff/</a></li>
  <li>Fernanda Weiden: <a href="http://fsfe.org/about/weiden/">http://fsfe.org/about/weiden/</a></li>
  <li>Christian Holz: <a href="http://fsfe.org/about/holz/">http://fsfe.org/about/holz/</a></li>
  <li>Adriaan de Groot: <a href="http://fsfe.org/about/adridg/">http://fsfe.org/about/adridg/</a></li>
  <li>Matthias Kirschner: <a href="http://fsfe.org/about/kirschner/">http://fsfe.org/about/kirschner/</a></li>  
</ul>

<p>A personal blog entry by Georg Greve:</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=354">http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=354</a></li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<p>The new team is available for comments:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Karsten Gerloff: +49 176 9690 4298</li>
  <li>Fernanda Weiden: +41 764 0218 66</li>
  <li>Christian Holz: +49 178 8359 482</li>
  <li>Adriaan de Groot: +31 6 2856 1142</li>
  <li>Matthias Kirschner: +49 176 2952 0450</li>  
</ul>

 <h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</h2>

<p> The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
 non-governmental organisation active in many European countries
 and involved in many global activities. Access to software
 determines participation in a digital society. To secure equal
 participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
 competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues
 and is dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by
 the freedoms to use, study, modify and copy.  Founded in 2001,
 creating awareness for these issues, securing Free Software
 politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by supporting
 development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="http://fsfe.org">http://fsfe.org</a></li>
</ul>

<p>Press contact: <a href="mailto:gerloff@fsfeurope.org">gerloff &lt;AT&gt; fsfeurope &lt;DOT&gt; org</a></p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
