<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE France - Press review : collect articles about Free Software</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	Anglais | <a href="collecte.fr.html">Français</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />

      <blockquote>

	<center>
	  <h2>FSFE France - Press review : collect articles about Free Software</h2>
	</center>

	<b>Contribution to collect articles about Free Software.</b>

	<p>What we are looking for are articles that say something new
	  ; go into great depth about an aspect; consider the wider
	  social or legal meanings ; give a good overview of the
	  subject ; talk about the history in depth ; or other
	  well-written pieces.  Something that is just so-so or just
	  says the same-old-thing would not really contribute to our
	  collection.</p>

	<menu>
	    <b>1. Collect articles</b>

	    <p>Remember that what we are looking for are good
	      articles. We don't need trivial or superficial
	      articles. First, read the article, and rate the quality
	      from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). If you rate 4 or 5, only
	      then you can really collect this article in this way
	      :</p>
	    <p>

	    <ul>
	      <li>Cut the pages of the newspaper, magazine related to Free Software</li>
	      <li>Cut the cover</li>

	      <li>Cut the part of the magazine that lists the address,
		name of the publication, contacts for editorial enquiries
		(ours in french)</li>
	    </ul> </p>

	    <p>(Replace with copies if you cannot cut)</p>

	    <b>2. Describe each article</b>

	    <p>Print and fill the <a href="form.en.html">form describing
		the article</a>. </p>

	    <b>3. Wrap and send</b>
	    <p>
	    <ul>
	      <li>Wrap all these things in a plastic cover, one per article</li>
	      <li>Give the plastics covers to Nicole Ciry when you get
		a change to meet her, or send them by ground mail. Nicole
		will give you her address if you get in touch with her at
		<a href="mailto:nciry@april.org">nciry@april.org</a></li>
	    </ul> </p>

	</menu>

	<p> Nicole will send every month or every two months what has
	  been collected to the FSF for archival.</p>

	<p>Thanks for your contribution.</p>

	<p>If you wish to participate, join us on the working mailing
	  list : <a
	  href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-france-pr">fsfe-france-pr@gnu.org</a>.</p>

      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Mis à jour:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
