<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2018-01-05">

 <head>
    <title>The FSFE asks for more Free Software and Open Standards in Open Science</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  
  <h1>The FSFE asks for more Free Software and Open Standards in Open Science</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">The Free Software Foundation Europe calls for Free 
  Software and Open Standards to be considered as a vital part of Open 
  Science for all publicly-funded research in Europe. You can help us by 
  sharing our position paper. Read more about the position paper and how 
  you can promote Free Software in science.</p>
  
  <p>Today, the FSFE published and submitted to the European Commission 
  its <a href="">Position paper for the endorsement of Free Software and Open Standards in Horizon2020</a>, as part 
  of the ongoing <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/consultations/interim_h2020_2016/consultation_en.htm">public consultation</a> on the 
  midterm evaluation of Horizon 2020.</p>
  
  <p>The position paper give key recommendations for the midterm evaluation 
  of Horizon 2020, the biggest EU Research and Innovation programme ever 
  with nearly €80 billion of funding available over 7 years (2014 to 2020).</p>
  
  <p>The results of this consultation will help the European Commission 
  to set the scene for  future discussions on the post-2020 EU research 
  and innovation funding programmes. The FSFE considers this public consultation 
  of paramount importance and wishes to put forward its suggestions regarding 
  Free Software and Open Standards in Horizon2020 or any other EU research 
  and innovation funding programmes in the future.</p>
  
  <p>In order to safeguard a sustainable future of scientific and technological 
  innovation in Europe and worldwide, the FSFE give the following recommendations 
  to the European Commission:</p>
  
  <ol>
  <li><p>Open Standards should be preferred for all knowledge exchange, 
  and in  particular for the dissemination of scientific publications and 
  the archival of all articles, data, and software used in scientific 
  research. The use of Open Standards in data and software repositories 
  and Data Management Plans (DMPs) concerning the Horizon 2020 publications, is 
  the only way to ensure data preservation and Open Science. Research 
  Funding Organisations should take the lead and foster changes of 
  business models when dealing with research data.</p></li>
  <li><p>Software developed with public funding, and in particular in 
  the framework of the Horizon2020 program should be mandatorily published 
  under a Free Software licence.</p></li>
  <li><p>Software developed with  public funding, and in particular in the 
  framework of the Horizon2020  program should be mandatorily archived in 
  a public software repository ensuring long term availability and persistent identification. </p></li>
  <li><p>Data and software repositories and Data Management Plans (DMPs) 
  must employ Free Software in order to ensure unfettered access to their 
  contents and long term preservation.</p></li>   
  <li><p>Establish "Open Science" Prizes for the promotion of Open Science 
  and raise awareness among stakeholders.</p></li>  
  </ol>
  
  <p>Software is an integral part of almost every research project, enabling 
  scientific progress. In Horizon 2020, most of the software used for scientific 
  research is both acquired and developed in the auspices of public or public-private 
  funding. Ensuring the accessibility to reuse, study, further develop and 
  improve the software would be a catalyst for Open Science, fostering 
  scientific cooperation, improving scientific processes, and benefiting 
  society as a whole.</p>
  
  <p>A recent decision of EU ministers' provided that by 2020, all scientific 
  publications on the results of publicly funded research in Europe must 
  be freely available under Open Access. European Commission expliticly 
  called free public access to publicly funded research "a vision of the 
  future" of Open Science not only in Europe, but globally for the year 2030.</p>
  
  <p>If you are interested to learn more about the above FSFE's recommendations 
  and the reasoning behind them, <a href="">read our full Position paper</a>.</p>
  
  <h2>Help to spread the word</h2>
  <p>To find out more about how you can do that, please consult our 
  <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/OpenScience_InterimEvaluation_Horizon2020">wiki page</a>. If your 
  time is limited, but you still wish to contribute, <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/OpenScience_InterimEvaluation_Horizon2020#If_you_just_have_5_minutes">please check our 5 minutes instructions!</a> Every 
  and each questionnaire submitted to the consultation makes a difference!</p>
  
  <p>We strongly encourage everyone to take part in the <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/research/consultations/interim_h2020_2016/consultation_en.htm">consultation</a> and give weight to more Free Software and 
  Open Standards in publicly-funded scientific research. <strong>The consultation 
  is open for everyone and runs until 15.01.2017</strong>.</p>
  
  
</body>

</html>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
