<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-02-17">

 <head>
    <title>European Commission responds to the FSFE's information request for Horizon 2020 </title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  
  <h1>European Commission responds to the FSFE's information request for Horizon 2020 </h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">The European Commission Directorate-General for Research
   and Innovation responds to [a Freedom of Information (FOI) request 
   about the use, development and release of software under Horizon 2020]
   (https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170110-01.en.html) - submitted by
   the FSFE on January 9, 2017.</p>
  
  <p>With this FOI request, the FSFE directly aimed at shedding light on 
  how much money is spent on the use and purchase of proprietary software
  licences through the Horizon 2020 funding for the beneficiary projects.
  Respectively, it intended to figure if and what kind of data is collected,
  apropos of Free Software licences. The FOI request followed the publication
  of the FSFE's <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20170105-horizon2020-position-paper.pdf">
  position paper for the endorsement of Free Software and Open Standards in
  Horizon 2020 and all publicly-funded research</a>.</p>
  
  <p>However, <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/PublicProcurementForNonFreeSoftware#The_response">
   the response by the Commission</a> revealed that no information is being
   collected on how the EU funds are being spent, when it comes to the 
   software used and developed by the beneficiary projects within Horizon 
   2020:</p>

 <blockquote> 
 <p>"[...] we checked if the requested information existed and the competent 
 Commission services informed us that the European Commission does not 
 systematically collect information about open source software used or 
 developed under Horizon 2020 grants, as this is not a reporting requirement
 in the Horizon 2020 legal basis. Consequently we are not in a position
 to provide you the information that you are looking for. The same applies
 to data concerning Horizon 2020 projects paying licence fees for software
 or developing software on their own."</p>
 </blockquote>
  
  <h2>Breaking down the EC's reply</h2>
 
  <p>The EC is justifying the lack of information with the argument that
   "it is not legally mandatory" to collect data concerning the use and
    acquisition of software licences.</p>

  <p>According to the Article 14(1) of the Regulation (EU) No 1291/2013 
  establishing Horizon 2020, particular attention in the framework shall
  be paid to the development and application of key enabling and industrial
  technologies as well as future and emerging technologies; and shall
  contribute to the Digital Agenda for Europe initiative. Regarding this
  particular point, <strong>the interim evaluation of Horizon 2020 shall assess
  the efficiency and use of resources, with particular attention to cross-cutting
  issues and other elements referred in the Article 14(1)</strong>. Software
  is no doubt falling under all of the points that Horizon 2020 is supposed to
  focus on when it comes to both industrial and emerging technologies, as
  well as part of the Digital Agenda for Europe. The absence of monitoring
  the use of resources Horizon 2020 projects are allocating to the use and
  development of software in Research and Innovation will not allow
  to assess the efficiency and use of resources of Horizon 2020 in its
  Interim evaluation.</p>
  
  <p>Indeed, in the <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/horizon2020/en/news/horizon-2020-monitoring-report-2014">
  first Annual Monitoring Report 2014</a> which focuses on the implementation 
  of the first year of the programme, information regarding the share of 
  EU financial contribution to the Information and Communication Technology
  (ICT) Research and Innovation was missing. According to <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/research/evaluations/pdf/archive/h2020_monitoring_reports/second_h2020_annual_monitoring_report.pdf">
  the second report for 2015</a>, preliminary data show that over one fifth
  of the EU funding in Horizon 2020 contributes to ICT Research and Innovation. </p>
  
  <h3>What "no information" means for Free Software and Open Science</h3>
  
  <p>The absence of data about the use of software within Horizon 2020 
  beneficiary projects makes almost impossible the accurate estimation of
  the amount of both proprietary and Free Software, being used or developed
  under Horizon 2020 grants.</p>
  
  <p>Taking into consideration the fact that nowadays, scientists irrespective
  of their field of study depend on software in order to successfully conduct
  their research, it is indisputable that almost every beneficiary project
  spends a considerable amount of the hand-out grant in the purchase of
  software licences. The fact that the EC does not collect data on the
  spending of public money for software licences disregards an essential
  part of the modern research.</p>
  
  <p>Consequently, without relevant data, Horizon 2020 monitoring and evaluation
  processes cannot draw safe conclusions. Critical factors, such as the
  re-use of software being developed with Horizon 2020 funding, or the
  costs for re-purchasing the same licences cannot be scrutinized and therefore,
  cannot lead decision-makers to optimised funding solutions. The most 
  significant complication, however, is the fact that the EC is not in
  position to prove with a degree of certainty that Open Access and subsequently
  Open Science, two of the Horizon 2020 most fundamental principles, are
  implemented in practice. As already argued in the FSFE's <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20170105-horizon2020-position-paper.pdf">
  recent position paper</a>, Open Science can neither be achieved nor be
  long-term sustainable without Free Software being its chief constituent.</p>

</body>
  <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag content="Open Standards">OpenStandards</tag>
      <tag content="Open Science">OpenScience</tag>
      <tag content="policy">policy</tag>
      <tag content="European Commission">EuropeanCommission</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
