<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2017-02-09">

  <head>
    <title>I love Free Software Day 2017</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>I love Free Software Day 2017</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
It's time to say "thank you" on 14th of February, the "I love Free 
Software" Day 2017. The Free Software Foundation Europe asks all Free 
Software users to use the traditional day of love to think of the 
hardworking people contributing to the Free Software we all depend on. 
As every year there are many ways for people to participate in this 
campaign.
</p>

<p>In the Free Software society we exchange a lot of criticism. We 
write bug reports, tell others how they can improve the software, ask 
them for new features, and generally are not shy about criticising 
others. There is nothing wrong about that. It helps us to constantly 
improve. But sometimes we forget to show the hardworking people behind 
the software our appreciation.</p>

<h2>Show your love for Free Software</h2>

<p>As the traditional day to show one's appreciation to people, 
Valentine's Day is the perfect opportunity to thank the contributors of 
the various Free Software you love: developers, translators, designers, 
testers, or documentation writers, of huge softwares or smaller 
projects. All of them work on the Free Software ecosystem which we can 
enjoy every day.</p>

<p>Have a look at how you can participate this year on <a 
href="/campaigns/ilovefs/">our campaign page</a>. You can also read <a 
href="/news/2016/news-20160222-01.html">how we celebrated last year</a> 
and see how <a href="/campaigns/ilovefs/whylovefs/gallery.html">people 
declare their love</a> for Free Software. If everybody contributes a 
small part we can enjoy a beautiful "I love Free Software" day 
together!</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag content="I Love Free Software">ilovefs</tag>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>
<author id="mehl" />
</html>
