<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2017-08-11">

  <head>
    <title>Open internship position as project assistant</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Open internship position as project assistant</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
FSFE is a charity dedicated to empowering users to control technology.
We are working to build freedom in digital society. We operate in a lively
environment with volunteers from many countries. We are looking for
an intern who can join our remote team for three to six months, working
with us on a project which seek to prepare the organisation for the
next 15 years of work.
</p>

<p>
What we can offer is:
<ul>
<li>A challenging and exciting time with a dynamic NGO working internationally</li>
<li>A close-up view of organisational and community processes</li>
<li>A chance to take the initiative and put your own ideas into practice</li>
<li>The opportunity to meet and work with Free Software advocates across Europe </li>

</ul>
</p>
<p>
What you'll do:
<ul>
        <li>
          Contribute to <a href="/work.html">FSFE's ongoing projects</a>, working with one or more of our staff and volunteers, with a particular focus on a project which will map out and analyse our organisational identity.
        </li>
        <li>
          Communicate with contacts from the FSFE community, NGO, industry, and public administrations.
        </li>
        <li>
          Coordinate volunteers and others in the work on various projects.
        </li>
        <li>
          Find your own strengths, and do something you care about.
        </li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>
Be sure to read our pages about <a href="/contribute/internship">internships</a>
in general before applying!
</p>

<h2>Basic details</h2>
<p>
<strong>Location:</strong> Remote. You'll be welcome to visit our office in Berlin, but you'll be working closely with our executive director based in Stockholm, Sweden, and as such, you will also be working primarily from your own place.
</p>

<p><strong>Duration:</strong> 3 to 6 months full time at 35 hours per week, starting as agreed.</p>

<p><strong>Compensation:</strong> We offer a compensation commensurate with your experience. As a general reference, for our technical internship offered in
2016-2017, we offered a salary of roughly €1,300 per month.</p>

<h2>Work responsibility and activities</h2>
<p>
Together with our executive director, you will work on a project to analyse
how the different groups within and outside of the FSFE perceive the
organisation's identity, which will work towards understanding how aligned
the identity is between the different groups.
</p>
<p>
The work will take the form of an analysis of existing material, interviews
with stakeholders, members and staff, as well as surveys. The whole process
will lead towards defining the organisational identity such that it can form
the basis for continued work in our organisational development.
The work may involve some travel, but it is likely to be limited.
</p>

<h2>Qualifications</h2>
<p>
You should have some experience or a considerable interest in Free Software.
Your field of study doesn't matter, but you should be able to relate it to
our work. Traditionally, a lot of interns in the FSFE have a legal or
political science background, but we've also had interns working with us
with a more technical or other social science background.
</p>
<p>
Experience from your studies or similar from conducting and analysing
interviews and surveys, together with appropriate methods for doing so
(for example grounded theory), will be greatly beneficial.
</p>

<h2>Formal requirements</h2>
<p>
You must be fluent in English, and ideally in at least one other
language. You must have some experience from working with Free Software
previously.
</p>

<h2>Application deadline</h2>
<p>
There is no fixed application deadline for this positions, but we will
conduct interviews and hiring starting the 14th of August, and as such,
your application should be sent soonest.
</p>

<h2>How to apply</h2>
<p>
Send your application containing a letter of motivation, a CV by e-mail
to contact@fsfe.org. Please make sure to write clearly you apply for
the internship position with reference PA-2017. We prefer to receive
your documents in PDF format.
</p>

<h2>Contact persons</h2>
<p>
If you have any questions about the position or any administrative
details in connection with it, you're welcome to contact:
</p>
<p>
<ul>
 <li>Jonas Öberg about the positions themselves, and the work involved</li>
 <li>Ulrike Sliwinski for any administrative questions</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>
Both will be reading and responding if you send your question to the
contact@fsfe.org address. We look forward to reading your application!
</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag content="internship">internship</tag>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>
<author id="oberg" />
</html>
