<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-03-28">

 <head>
    <title>Input about Free Software for German OGP action plan published</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  
  <h1>Input about Free Software for German OGP action plan published</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">Today the civil society "working group OGP (Open
  Government Partnership) Germany" (Arbeitskreis OGP Deutschland) <a href="https://opengovpartnership.de/2017/03/2069/">published its
  input for a German OGP action plan</a>. The goal of the Open Government actions
  is to increase transparency, citizen friendlyness, reporting, and
  effectiveness of governments and administrations. The input, which was
  already handed over to the German Government on 20 March, consists of 30 Open
  Government topics, including a section about Free Software.</p>

  <p>In December 2016 Germany joined the Open Government Partnership. Until
  June 2017 a German action plan is to be developed and decided by the German
  government.</p>

  <p>To achieve this, on 17 February 2017 the German government invited 
  representatives from the civil society to a workshop to develop input for a
  German action plan for the upcoming two years. After the workshop members of
  civil society groups further developed the suggestions published today. In
  the weeks to come the German federal ministries will examine the different
  suggestions, debate internally, and draft a national action plan with
  concrete goals. There will also be another workshop to discuss the
  goals between administrations and the civil society (see <a href="http://www.verwaltung-innovativ.de/DE/Internationales/OGP/zeitlicher_ablauf/zeitlicher_ablauf_node.html">the German timetable for the action plan by the German Government</a>).</p>

  <p>The OGP action plan will not just address the federal government but should
  also affect administrations in the German federal states and municipalities.</p>

  <h2>Input from the civil society about Free/Open Source Software</h2>

  <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe worked together with other German Free
  Software organisations and the "working group OGP Germany" to summarise the
  topic of Free Software in the Open Government context and develop concrete
  action items for the government.</p>

  <p>By publishing the input we hope to enable civil society actors around the
  world to learn about the OGP discussion in Germany, adapt suggestions to
  other countries' contexts, and to enable people to give further input to the
  German debate.</p>

  <p>Below a rough translation of our input originally written in German. (The
  <a
  href="https://opengovpartnership.de/files/2017/03/170323_Zivilgesellschaftliche_Empfehlungen_NAP_OGP.pdf">full
submission is available in German at the website for the workgroup
OGP</a>.)</p>

<blockquote>
  <h3>Introduction into the topic</h3>

  <p>Open Government offers the possibility to make the activities of the state
  more persistent and plausible for its citizens. Open software achieves this
  with its open/free licensing which is proved as an international standard.
  The "Open Government Toolbox" sums up 1928 IT projects from 523 organisations
  to help in the transition to Open Government.  The spectrum of this stunning
  collection shows the potential of Open Government software.  From data
  visualisation to participation tools and on up to tools for local urban
  initiatives, numerous projects for administration and civil society are
  already freely accessible.</p>

  <ul>

    <li><strong>Recycling</strong>: Open Software can be used for various
      purposes and can be re-used.  Once it is developed in the scope of a
      governmental tender, the software code can then be used by other
      administrations for similar problems.  A good example is "Fix My Street":
      originally developed as a reporting tool for damage on roads in the
      United Kingdom, it is now also being used in Switzerland, Ireland,
      Malaysia, Norway, Sweden, Uganda and Uruguay. As additionally developed
      extensions to the software and user experiences are shared between
    nations, all users benefit from the increasing use.</li>

    <li><strong>Independence</strong>: The use of Open Software offers more
      opportunities for procurement and selection of partners. A
      strategic "lock-in", a dependency on certain vendors, is avoided as the
    code can be maintained by other market competitors as well.</li>

    <li><strong>Neutrality of platforms</strong>: With open standards the
      public authorities can achieve more platform neutrality. Thereby they are
      no longer dependent on certain vendors and can choose a new one at any
    time.</li>

    <li><strong>Transparency</strong>: While conventional government software
      is a blackbox and is a proprietary secret, the source code of Open
      Government software is basically always available.</li>

    <li><strong>Participation</strong>: The Open Source code combined with a
      free license allows synergies of government agencies (with civil
      society), enterprises and citizens.  Software provided by the state can
      be maintained and used by external users - and vice versa. Open
      Government software projects initiated by the state give an impetus for
      collaborative projects where various perspectives from administration,
      civil society, enterprises and citizens come together.</li>

  </ul>

  <p>For the implementation of the Open Government road map, new software will
  be developed.  Open Government software should be accessible under a suitable
  Free/Open license [1] to enable re-use and sharing of solutions between
  authorities, companies and citizens.</p>

  <h3>Our vision until 2030:</h3>

  <p>Federal, regional and local administrations share their solutions with
  other administrations, companies and civil society.  For new solutions, the
  participants can refer to a collection of pre-existing solutions, re-use and
  improve these and share them with everyone.  All solutions guarantee use
  independent of the used platform.  Neither citizens, companies nor
  administrations should be technically discriminated against.  These German
  software solutions enjoy an excellent reputation in administrations, civil
  society, and commercial enterprises around the world.  People enjoy using
  them and they are further developed by other programming groups.  Therefore
  this results in investment protection and a higher sustainability for the
  public sector, which will be developed further by third-parties, even if
  individual German administrative authorities opt for other solutions.</p>

  <h3>Further information sources and links:</h3>

  <ul>
    <li>[1] Free/Open Source licensing model: See also the list of the <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.en.html">Free Software Foundation</a> and of the <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/category">Open Source Initiative</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://ogptoolbox.org/en/">OGP Toolbox</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/interoperability/search">EU Joinup solutions</a></li>
      <li><a href="http:///code.gov">USA Portal Code.Gov</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/technology/making-source-code-open-and-reusable">UK: Proof of concept</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://fixmystreet.com/">Fixmystreet UK</a> - <a href="http://fixmystreet.org/">Fixmystreet OGS</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/eupl/og_page/european-union-public-licence-eupl-v11">EUPL</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://fsfe.org/about/basics/freesoftware.html">Introduction into "Software Freedom" by FSFE</a></li>
  </ul>

  <h3>Suggestions for commitments by the workshop for a NAP two-pager</h3>

  <h4>Level 1: Suggestions for organising the process</h4>

  <ul>

    <li>Establishment of an expert group, containing members of federal, state
      and municipal administrations for re-use and sharing of open software for
      the state and the administration (Re-use and Share OSS). Therefore, at
      least twice a year, an internal dialogue can take place. There, the group
      can tap into the topic of Open Source software and understand it in terms
      of overlapping administrative needs.  Due to this overlap, employees from
      all levels of the public administrations should be utilised  as
      contributors and architects, and encouraged to integrate, share, and
      promote more re-use of the administration's software.</li>

    <li>Establishment of a workgroup with members from administration, civil
      society and companies for re-use and sharing of Free Software for the
      state and the administration. The workshop should take place at least
      twice a year to enable an exchange to listen to each other and receive
      feedback by the civil society for further conceptional development. There
      should be a strong link between the workgroup and the referring expert
      group (see paragraph above) in the administration. Thereby a transfer of
      knowledge into the public administration, and indirectly into politics,
      is ensured.</li>

    <li>Commissioning of a study running until December 2018 to do basic
      research about the cooperation in public administrations in usage of
      free/open software. It should consider both users and
      business/development associations so that national and international
      knowledge and practical experience from study and usage are taken into
      account. The full potential, with the help of workshops (Collaborative
      Design), should be outlined.  With this approach, all relevant
      perspectives and proposals for implementation are available for the
      second National Action Plan.</li>

    <li>Conducting two <a href="http://plugfest.opendocumentformat.org/">"Plug
        Fest"</a> events in Germany until 2018 as Open Collaborative Workshops,
      where special departments of local authorities can be brought into
      technical dialogue with providers of document editing solutions.  With
      those multi stakeholder events many countries in Europe have made
    positive experiences for increasing interoperability.  </li>

    <li>Commission of a scientific study about open standards and open
      interfaces in public administrations (including open document formats) by
      June of 2018.  With this the national and international knowledge and
      practical experience (Germany: SAGA 5.1.0, EU, Austria, Switzerland,
      France, Italy, Netherlands) will be taken into account. The full
      potential with the help of workshops (Collaborative Design) should be
      outlined so all relevant possibilities and proposals should be available
      for the second National Action Plan.</li>

    <li>Commission of an evaluation study about the accessibility and platform
      neutrality of public web interfaces by the federal authorities until
      January 2018.  Through this we can achieve transparency about how certain
      user groups are technically discriminated against by the websites of the
      authorities and how these sites are accessible regardless of used
      devices.  Based on this evaluation, best practices will be introduced
      simultaneously.  Also, basic principles acting as suggestions for
      creating accessible and vendor-neutral websites for authorities as well
      as for public institutions will be presented.</li>

  </ul>

    <h4>Level 2: Precise legislative steps and regulation requirements</h4>

    <ul>

    <li>Establishment of the EU ISA2 law regarding the platform neutrality in
      the acquisition of web service until 2019, so that citizens can use
      public sector services regardless of the technology used by the citizens
      (Operating systems: Mac OS, Linux, Windows, Android / Browser: Firefox,
      Chrome, Internet Explorer.../ Hardware: Tablet, Desktop-PC, Smartphone,
      Thin Internet Client).</li>

    <li>Proposal for a law to set up a national software archive by 2019 which
      clarifies where German authorities and suppliers should deposit and store
      (long-term-archive) the source code, documentation, interface
      specifications and database schemes of their software solutions. This
      enables security checks and the preservation of our digital cultural
      heritage.</li>

    </ul>

    <h4>Level 3: Minimal measures (Mandatory programme)</h4>

    <ul> 
      
      <li>Software, which is being commissioned or developed in the course of
        realising the OGP action plan, should re-use free/open software
        components and should be made accessible on the <a
                          href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/">EU software
                          platform joinup</a> and in the <a
                          href="https://ogptoolbox.org/de/">"OGP Toolbox"</a>
                      for other governments, companies and the civil
                      society.</li>

      <li>Capacity-generating measures for the participation of Germany in the
        further development of the <a
          href="https://github.com/DISIC/foss-contrib-policy-template">
          Free/Open Source Software Contributor Policy Template in the OGP</a>
        (Bulgaria, France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America
        have already pledged to do this).</li>

    <li>Until mid 2018 evaluation of which software, of those created during the
      implementation of the IT-planning council's action plan for 2017, can be
      made available in the OGP Toolbox under a free/open license by 2019.
        (See <a
          href="http://www.it-planungsrat.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/Entscheidungen/21_Sitzung/20_Anlage1_Aktionsplan.html">Action
          Plan</a>)</li>

    <li>Federal government, federal states, and municipalities should
      communicate information about the cooperation between the authorities and
      other participants regarding software solutions to the EU portal Joinup
      for publication. This will make this kind of cooperation more popular and
      persuades other entities to participate.</li>
    </ul>

</blockquote>

</body>
  <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag content="OpenGovernmentPartnership">OpenGovernmentPartnership</tag>
      <tag content="policy">policy</tag>
      <tag content="PublicAdministration">PublicAdministration</tag>
  </tags>

</html>
