<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2017-06-19">

 <head>
    <title>Legal and Licensing Workshop 2017: Its 10th edition "restarts" debates in Free Software licensing</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  
  <h1>Legal and Licensing Workshop 2017: Its 10th edition "restarts" debates in Free Software licensing</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">In April, the FSFE organised its annual 
  <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/legal-conference.en.html">Free 
  Software Legal and Licensing Workshop</a> (LLW): a meeting point for 
  legal experts from all over the world to discuss issues and best practices 
  surrounding Free Software licences. This year marks the 10th anniversary 
  of the LLW which was celebrated with the record number of participants: 
  120 top legal experts and technologists came all the way down to Barcelona 
  (Spain) to spend 3 full days discussing legal challenges around Free Software.</p>
  
  <p>This year, the workshop was held under theme "Restart". Based on the 
  topics discussed <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/legal-conference.en.html">in the previous editions</a>, 
  it seemed that several prominent discussions needed to be reopened in 
  order to address emerging challenges. Experts had the opportunity to 
  debate on various legal issues, including but not limited to: open data
  and hardware, open government, tooling for lawyers, software patents, 
  copyright trolls and other existing challenges for Free Software compliance, 
  by attending more than 35 presentations of internationally distinguished 
  speakers with long-standing contribution in the field.</p>

  <p>Admission to the event was open to all 
  <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/ln-rules.en.html#join">Legal Network</a> 
  members, while the whole event was covered under the 
  <a href="https://www.chathamhouse.org/about/chatham-house-rule">Chatham 
  House Rule</a>, enabling confidential discussions under fair terms for 
  all the participants.</p>

  <p>The part of event was covered by Jake Edge from LWN.net, who 
  underlined the following discussions during the workshop:</p>

  <p>Shane Coughlan, Armijn Hemel and Mark Radcliffe participated in a panel 
  discussing <a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/721458/">the rise of the 
  copyright troll</a>. Despite copyright trolls not being something new 
  to the Free Software legal world, the three panelists analysed the 
  methodology behind such enforcement efforts, based on McHardy's case 
  in Germany, and discussed ways to address that problem through governance 
  of Free Software projects.</p>

  <p>The FSFE program manager, Max Mehl shared with the audience the 
  <a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/722197/">FSFE's concerns about the EU radio equipment directive</a>
  (RED). RED might be leading device makers to lock down their hardware, 
  stripping users and vendors from their right to install alternative software
  of their choice on it. Existing legal uncertainty over newly introduced 
  requirements for hardware manufacturers poses a real threat to Free Software 
  enterprises and projects, thus a timely response to these concerns is 
  critical for software freedom on all devices that emit and/or receive 
  radio waves, including laptops and smartphones. Max Mehl presented 
  <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/radiodirective/statement.en.html">the 
  Joint Statement against Radio Lockdown</a>, signed by almost 50 organisations 
  and companies, and invited everyone to take part in the relevant discussions 
  by subscribing to <a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/radiodirective">the dedicated mailing list</a>.</p>
  
  <p>Luis Villa, as one of the speakers presenting on open data, 
  <a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/721540/">shed light on the legal implications</a>
  that need to be taken into account, especially with regard to the data 
  sets used by machine-learning systems. Privacy concerns, cross-jurisdictional 
  issues, copyright claims and an emerging right to explanation are all 
  open legal questions, waiting for a not-so-easy response, according to 
  Luis Villa. A move towards open data has already begun in this area but 
  the legal difficulties remain: can a copyright licence, albeit open*, 
  address all these issues? The regulatory response from the governments 
  may also not be the best solution to provide necessary leverage, according 
  to Luis Villa.</p>
  
  <p>In the Free Software world, the supply chain is perplexing and global, 
  characterised by compliance challenges within numerous Free Software 
  licences. Shane Coughlan <a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/721698/">described the OpenChain project</a> 
  as the means that helps companies in the supply chain to keep track of 
  their compliance, irrespective of the preferred Free Software licence.</p>
  
  <p>Another recent effort from the pioneers of the GPL compliance - Shane 
  Coughlan and Armijn Hemel - was also presented during the workshop: 
  <a href="https://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/research/practical-gpl-compliance">Practical GPL Compliance</a>
  is designed to guide individuals and companies for better GPL compliance 
  when working with Free Software.</p>
  
  <p>Last but not least, this year marked also a "restart" for our 
  long-serving <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fiduciary.en.html">Fiduciary Licensing Agreement</a> (FLA). 
  The FLA is a well-balanced contributor agreement, which gives the trustee 
  responsible power to make sure the contributed software always remain 
  free and open. Matija Šuklje, the previous FSFE's Legal Coordinator and 
  the main driving force behind the FLA update, presented the challenges, 
  process and changes that led to the FLA-2.0. The biggest points of the 
  update are that the FLA now also covers patents and enables more practical 
  outbound licensing options, including a reference to an external licensing 
  policy. In addition, the new wording is much improved both in its compatibility 
  with more jurisdictions as well as being easier to understand and apply. 
  The final text and a new website are to launch in the coming weeks, 
  so watch this space.</p>
  
  <p>The workshop would not have been possible without the generous support 
  of all the event's sponsors. In particular, we would like to thank our 
  Platinum Sponsors: Intel, Red Hat and The Linux Foundation.</p>


</body>
  <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag content="Legal">Legal</tag>
      <tag content="Licensing">Licensing</tag>
      <tag content="Compliance">Compliance</tag>
  </tags>
  <author id="polina"/>

</html>
