<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-06-16">

<head>
  <title>FSFE provides Git hosting for its supporters</title>
</head>
  
<body>

<h1>FSFE provides Git hosting for its supporters</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Sharing one's knowledge is a core principle in the Free Software 
society, collaboration is another. From today, the FSFE provides its <a 
href="/join?ref-git">supporters</a> and registered volunteers a 
platform to create and manage Git repositories with a comfortable user 
interface: <a href="https://git.fsfe.org">git.fsfe.org</a>.</p>

<p>Git is not only a tool to store files but the most popular version 
control system, similar to SVN. While Git is a command line server and 
client, there are several graphical implementations. The FSFE is using <a 
href="https://gitea.io">Gitea</a> as a web interface.</p>

<h2>Features</h2>

<p>With <a href="https://git.fsfe.org">git.fsfe.org</a>, the FSFE allows 
its supporters to share and collaborate on a platform while fully 
respecting their freedoms. Using the graphical web interface, people 
can open issue reports for bugs or feature requests. This way, users 
are able to:</p>

<ul>
  <li>host code they are using for their FSFE activities (and of course 
  other purposes)</li>
  <li>share minutes and other documents of FSFE group meetings</li>
  <li>collaborate on flyers, presentations or business cards</li>
  <li>leave feedback on and help improving existing software by other 
  users of git.fsfe.org</li>
  <li>...and many more!</li>
</ul>

<p>The FSFE also strives to migrate as much code and relevant files as 
possible to this new platform, for example future website developments, 
promotion material, and helpful scripts for the organisation's 
day-to-day work.</p>

<h2>About Gitea</h2>

<p>Gitea is a performant and user-friendly Git service that is 
published under a Free Software license. Unlike other services there is 
no proprietary enterprise version ("open-core"), but has a strong focus 
on community development, and already contains almost all features 
people know from other Git services without any non-free dependencies. 
There are already efforts taking place to interconnect Gitea 
installations to enable federation of Git repositories.</p>

<p>We would like to welcome you to log in with your FSFE Fellowship 
credentials, test and use the service, and <a href="/contact">leave 
some feedback</a>. You can also push this new service by improving 
and adding usage guides for Git beginners on our dedicated <a 
href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/Git">wiki pages</a> – help us 
helping! Also, consider contributing to the Gitea project.</p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Webmasters">Webmasters</tag>
</tags>
<author id="mehl"/>

</html>
