<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2017-11-14">

  <head>
    <title>Open position as office assistant</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Open position as office assistant</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
FSFE is a charity dedicated to keeping the power over technology in your hands. We are working to build freedom in a digital society and operate in a lively environment with volunteers from many countries. We are looking for an assistance supporting the office manager with for instance:
</p>
<p>
<ul>
<li>Sending out information material, merchandise-articles and welcome-letters for new supporters</li>
<li>Packing and posting packages for  FSFE’s information-booths</li>
<li>Keeping office and staff’s kitchen tidy</li>
</ul>
</p>

<h2>Basic details</h2>
<p>
<strong>Location:</strong> FSFE’s office in Berlin (Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin.</p>

<p><strong>Duration:</strong> unlimited, 10 hours per week attending at least twice a week once at beginning of the week and once at the end of the week.</p>

<p><strong>Compensation:</strong> 8,84 € per hour as Minijob</p>

<h2>Qualifications</h2>
<p>
Basic knowledge with computers, fluent in English and German.
</p>

<h2>Application deadline</h2>
<p>
Please apply by 07.01.2018.
</p>

<h2>How to apply</h2>
<p>
Send your application containing a letter of motivation, a CV by e-mail
to contact@fsfe.org. Please make sure to write clearly you apply for
the office assistant position with reference A-2018. We prefer to receive
your documents in PDF format.
</p>

<h2>Contact persons</h2>
<p>
If you have any questions about the position or any administrative
details in connection with it, you're welcome to contact:
</p>
<p>
<ul>
 <li>Jonas Öberg about the work of the FSFE,</li>
 <li>Ulrike Sliwinski for any questions about the work itself.</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>
Both will be reading and responding if you send your question to the
contact@fsfe.org address. We look forward to reading your application!
</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>
<author id="oberg" />
</html>
