<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2017-02-14">

  <head>
    <title>Berlin sends a message for "I love Free Software" day</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Berlin sends a message for "I love Free Software" day</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">In celebration of the "I love Free Software" day on 
February 14, the Berlin Reichtag has been illuminated with the message 
"Give Free Software A Chance" last weekend. On numerous buildings and 
symbolic places in Berlin other messages have been projected. "Build 
Free Software - Not Walls" could have been read on the Berlin Wall, and 
the Federal Ministry of Finances has been decorated by the slogan 
"Public Money, Public Code". Thereby, activists draw attention to the 
importance of larger appreciation of Free Software.</p>

<p>FSFE representatives also delivered an open letter together with a 
rose to all members of German parliament in which they demand a higher 
political support of Free Software and the a higher recognition of 
voluntary Free Software development.</p>

<blockquote><p>Matthias Kirschner, FSFE's president, comments: "Free 
Software enables everyone to use, study, share, and improve programs 
for any purpose. These rights help support other fundamental rights 
like freedom of speech, freedom of press and privacy. Therefore, we ask 
politics and administration to put publicly financed software under a 
free license. Software funded by public money should be a common good 
and available to all people so that the whole society can benefit from 
it."</p></blockquote>

<p>The "I love Free Software" day is being celebrated on every 
Valentine's Day and is dedicated to the countless voluntary 
contributors of Free Software.</p>

<p>Further information:</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="/campaigns/ilovefs/2017/berlin.html">Pictures of the activity under a free license</a></li> 
  <li><a 
href="/campaigns/ilovefs/2017/ilovefs-OpenLetter.pdf">Letter to the members of German parliament</a> (German)</li>
  <li><a href="https://ilovefs.org">About "I love Free Software" day</a></li> 
</ul>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag content="I Love Free Software">ilovefs</tag>
  <tag content="Berlin">Berlin</tag>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>
</html>
