<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2020-09-13">

<head>
    <title>Public Money? Public Code! 23 organisations ask to improve public procurement of software</title>
  </head>
  <body>

  <h1>Public Money? Public Code! 23 organisations ask to improve public procurement of software</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">Digital services offered and used by public
    administrations are the critical infrastructure of 21st-century
    democratic nations. To establish  trustworthy systems, government
    agencies must ensure they have full control over systems at the core
    of our digital infrastructure. This is rarely the case today due to
    restrictive software licences.</p>

    <p>Today, 23 organisations are publishing an <a
    href="https://publiccode.eu/openletter/">open letter</a> in which
    they call for lawmakers to advance legislation requiring publicly
    financed software developed for the public sector be made available
    under a Free and Open Source Software licence. The initial
    signatories include CCC, EDRi, Free Software Foundation Europe, KDE,
    Open Knowledge Foundation Germany, openSUSE, Open Source Business Alliance,
    Open Source Initiative, The Document Foundation, Wikimedia
    Deutschland, as well as several others; they ask individuals and other
    organisation to <a href="https://publiccode.eu/#action">sign the
    open letter</a>. The open letter will be sent to candidates for the
    German Parliament election and, during the coming months, until the
    2019 EU parliament elections, to other representatives of the EU and
    EU member states.</p>

    <p>Public institutions spend millions of euros each year on the
    development of new software tailored to their needs. The procurement
    choices of the public sector play a significant role in determining
    which companies are allowed to compete and what software is
    supported with tax payers' money. Public administrations on all
    levels frequently have problems sharing code with each other, even
    if they funded its complete development. Furthermore, without the
    option for independent third parties to run audits or other security
    checks on the code, sensible citizen data is at risk.</p>

    <blockquote><p>"We need software that fosters the sharing of good
    ideas and solutions. Only like this will we be able to improve
    digital services for people all over Europe. We need software that
    guarantees freedom of choice, access, and competition. We need
    software that helps public administrations regain full control of
    their critical digital infrastructure, allowing them to become and
    remain independent from a handful of companies," says Matthias
    Kirschner, President of the Free Software Foundation
    Europe.</p></blockquote>
 
    <p>That is why the signatories call on representatives all around
    Europe to modernise their digital infrastructure to allow other
    public administrations, companies, or individuals to freely use,
    study, share and improve applications developed with public money.
    Thereby providing safeguards for the public administration against
    being locked in to services from specific companies that use
    restrictive licences to hinder competition, and ensuring that the
    source code is accessible so that back doors and security holes can
    be fixed without depending on only one service provider.</p>

    <blockquote><p>"Public bodies are financed through taxes. They
    should spend funds responsibly and in the most efficient way
    possible. If it is public money, it should be public code as well!",
    says Kirschner.</p></blockquote>

<h2>References</h2>

<ul>
<li><a href="https://publiccode.eu/openletter/">Open Letter</a></li>
<li><a href="https://publiccode.eu/#action">Sign the Open Letter!</a></li>
<li><a href="http://download.fsfe.org/videos/pmpc/">Video (3:47) in different formats</a> (licensed under CC-By 4.0 ), or also for embedding on <a href="https://vimeo.com/232524527">Vimeo</a> and <a href="https://youtu.be/iuVUzg6x2yo">Youtube</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>The initial signatories</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="https://ensinolivre.pt" title="Associação Ensino Livre">Associação Ensino Livre</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://ansol.org" title="Associação Nacional para o Software Livre">Associação Nacional para o Software Livre (ANSOL)</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.ccc.de" title="Chaos Computer Club">Chaos Computer Club</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://direitosdigitais.pt/" title="D3-Defesa dos Direitos Digitais">D3-Defesa dos Direitos Digitais</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://digitalcourage.de/" title="digitalcourage">Digitalcourage</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://dyne.org" title="Dyne.org Foundation">Dyne.org Foundation</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://epf.org.pl" title="ePaństwo Foundation">ePaństwo Foundation</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://edri.org" title="European Digital Rights">European Digital Rights (EDRi)</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://fsfe.org" title="Free Software Foundation Europe">Free Software Foundation Europe</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://hackyourphd.org/" title="HackYourPhD">HackYourPhD</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://ev.kde.org" title="K Desktop Environment">KDE</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.lugos.si" title="Linux User Group Of Slovenia">Linux User Group Of Slovenia (LUGOS)</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.linuxwochen.at/" title="Linuxwochen">Linuxwochen</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://nowoczesnapolska.org.pl" title="Modern Poland Foundation">Modern Poland Foundation</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://quintessenz.at" title="quintessenz - Verein zur Wiederherstellung der Bürgerrechte im Informationszeitalter">quintessenz</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://okfn.de" title="Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland">Open Knowledge Foundation Deutschland</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://opensuse.org" title="openSUSE">openSUSE</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://osb-alliance.de" title="Open Software Business Alliance">Open Software Business Alliance</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://opensource.org/" title="Open Source Initiative">Open Source Initiative</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://slat.org/" title="Software Liberty Association Taiwan">Software Liberty Association Taiwan</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.documentfoundation.org" title="The Document Foundation">The Document Foundation</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://wikimedia.de" title="Wikimedia Deutschland">Wikimedia Deutschland</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://xnet-x.net/" title="Xnet">Xnet</a></li>
</ul>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Public Money Public Code">Public Money Public Code</tag>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>
</html>
