

newnew<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2017-10-13">

<head>
    <title>FSFE präsentiert modernisierte treuhänderische Lizensierungsvereinbarungt 2.0</title>
  </head>
  <body>

  <h1>FSFE präsentiert modernisierte treuhänderische Lizensierungsvereinbarungt 2.0</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">Die FSFE und ContributorAgreements.org präsentieren stolz
  die überarbeitet und geänderte <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fla.en.html">treuhänderische Lizensierungsvereinbarung 
  2.0</a> (FLA-2.0) - ein nächste-Geneation Beitragenden Vereinbarung die sicher geht, dass
  die beigetragene Software immer freie Software bleibte.</p>
  
  <p>Die FSFE bestätigt, dass das Lizensieren von Code gut bedient wird von 
  Freie Software Lizenzen wie die GPL, Apache, BSD, und MPL Familie. 
  Jedoch, die Verwaltung von Rechten und Inhalten in einem Projekt über einen langen 
  Zeitraum is immernoch ein komplexes Problem.</p>
 
  <p>Um dies zu lösen hat de FSFE mit Hilfe von <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fla.en.html#authors">wissenden Experten</a>
  die treuhänderische Lizenzvereinbarung (FLA) bereits 2002 entworfen. Die FLA 
  ist ein gut-ausgewogenes Beitragenden Vereinbarung, welche den Verwalter, verantwortlich 
  macht für das Managen von Rechten in Freie Sofrware Projekten, Macht und 
  Verantwortlichkeit um sicherzustellen, dass die beigetragene Software immer frei und offen bleibt. 
  Auf diesem Weg sind das Projekt, zusammen mit allen Beitragenden, 
  geschützt gegen jegliche Art von Missbrauch der Macht eines neuen Copyright Inhaber.</p>
  
  <p>Der Weg wie dies funktionier unter der FLA ist, dass Entwickler is that developers assign an exclusive
  licence to the trustee (usually a foundation or company, under whose auspices 
  the software lies) and in return they receive a non-exclusive licence 
  of the same extent, as well as a legally binding promise that the code 
  they contributed will forever remain Free Software.</p>
  
  <p>In the last decade, the world of IT has changed quite a bit and, 
  apart from copyright, patents and trade marks have become a serious concern 
  for Free Software projects.</p>
  
  <p>With the last review in 2007, the FLA (version 1.2) was long due an 
  update. So we are delighted to finally unveil the FLA-2.0 – a much improved 
  and modernised version.</p>
  
  <p>The biggest improvements are that the FLA-2.0 now also covers patents 
  and enables more practical licensing options directed towards third 
  parties – including referencing to an external licensing policy. In addition, 
  the new wording is much improved both in its compatibility with more 
  jurisdictions as well as being easier for everybody to understand and 
  apply.</p>
  
  <p>Furthermore, we have joined forces with <a href="http://contributoragreements.org/about.html">ContributorAgreements.org</a> 
  and integrated the FLA-2.0 into its Copyright Licensing Agreement (CLA) 
  chooser/generator, in order to make the use of the FLA easier both for 
  projects and for developers. As a side-effect, all CLA on ContributorAgreements.org 
  have been updated as well, following some of the improvements from the FLA.</p>
  
  <blockquote>
  <p>As is often in FOSS and life, we are merely standing on 
  the shoulders of giants. The current update – while itself taking several 
  industrious years of research and analysis, culminating in a master's thesis
  – would not have been possible without the authors of the original FLA, 
  as well as a great deal of legal research which was the basis for the 
  ContributorAgreements.org. The sheer community knowledge aggregated in 
  the FLA-2.0 makes me confident that it is more relevant and useful today 
  as ever before.</p>
  
   <p>says Matija Šuklje, former FSFE's Legal Coordinator and the main 
  driving force behind the FLA update.</p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <blockquote>
  <p>The revised FLA-2.0 is an outcome of a longstanding and 
  scrupulous collaboration between the FSFE and ContributorAgreements.org. 
  We are pleased to see that collaboration to bear fruits in the shape of 
  the FLA-2.0. We hope that the new FLA will provide developers and Free 
  Software projects with more clarity, while retaining the spirit of the
  original version.</p>
  
  <p>says Polina Malaja, the FSFE’s Legal Coordinator</p>
  </blockquote>

  <blockquote>  
  <p>We are thrilled to partner with FSFE and to see the new 
  FLA-2.0 go live hand in hand with a new version of our set of standardised 
  contributor agreements. FSFE's passion and especially Matija Šuklje's 
  dedication to modernising the FLA has enabled us to further revise and 
  refine our agreement chooser and we are especially delighted to offer 
  the new FLA-2.0 as one possible agreement to be chosen out different 
  options available at <a href="www.contributoragreements.org">contributoragreements.org</a>
  </p>
  
  <p>says Catharina Maracke, Team Lead at ContributorAgreements.org</p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <blockquote>
  <p>KDE e.V. is the biggest user of the FLA and we are delighted 
  to see this new version released. As a global project we especially appreciate 
  the effort to make it applicable to more jurisdictions and easier to 
  understand for our contributors.</p>
  
  <p>says Lydia Pintscher, President of KDE e.V.</p>
  </blockquote>

 
  </body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="FLA">fla</tag>
  <tag content="Legal">legal</tag>
  <tag content="Licensing">licensing</tag>
</tags>
</html>
