<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2017-11-13">

  <head>
    <title>Welcome supporters (and goodbye smartcard)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Welcome supporters (and goodbye smartcard)</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
Earlier this year, after a public consultation, took the decision to
deprecate the name of our supporter program, the Fellowship of the FSFE,
and talk about our supporters by their true name: Supporters. Today,
with the change almost complete, we're also taking the opportunity to
say goodbye to the Fellowship Smartcard, which has been a part of
FSFE life since more than ten years.
</p>

<p>
These changes do not come easy for us. They have been a part of the FSFE
for as long as many of us, and many of us have at times identified as being
part of the Fellowship. But what's become apparent is that in creating the
Fellowship, we also introduced an artificial divide between the FSFE and its
supporter program.
</p>
<p>
Anyone who has felt themselves a part of the Fellowship should, and will, be
encouraged to think of themselves as a part of the FSFE. Rather than talking
about Fellowship Groups, meeting locally to discuss Free Software, we're
talking about FSFE groups. Instead of being a Fellow of the Fellowship program
of the FSFE, you will be a Supporter of the FSFE.
</p>
<p>
This connection between our supporters, volunteers, and the FSFE is 
important to us: as a volunteer organisation, anyone who participates in
our work, regardless of if supporting the organisation financially or through
volunteer contributions, should feel a part of the FSFE.
</p>
<p>
At the same time as we're completing this change, we're also decomissioning
our old Fellowship SmartCard, an OpenPGP SmartCard which all our Fellows have
traditionally received as a thank you for joining. As we say goodbye to the
Fellowship, we also say goodbye to the SmartCard, but for different reasons.
</p>
<p>
We love the SmartCard, and many of us still use it. But the number of
of supporters who actually use it is none to many. That it requires
a SmartCard reader, which most people do not have in their computers,
further limits its use. Most of the questions we receive about the
SmartCard is also about how to use it. Which we would love to help with,
but the FSFE is not setup to handle support inquiries related to OpenPGP
smartcards.
</p>
<p>
Since the FSFE is not the only provider of these SmartCards, we've decided
to stop offering them to new Supporters. They are available to purchase from
other vendors for those of our Supporters who still want to get a hand on
one.
</p>
<p>
So with this, it's time for us to say; Goodbye Fellows! Welcome Supporters!
</p>

</body>
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
</tags>
<author id="oberg" />
</html>
