<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2020-03-02">

 <head>
    <title>What happened in Munich</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  
  <h1>What happened in Munich</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">
    On 15 February 2017, the  city council of Munich, Germany convened
    to  discuss the  future  of  their LiMux  project.  In its  public
    session, the plenary voted to have the city administration develop
    a strategy to  unify client-side IT architecture,  building atop a
    yet-to-be-developed "Windows-Basis-Client".  A translation  of the
    complete decision is included further down.
  </p>

  <p>
    The opposing parties were overruled, but the decision was amended
    such that the strategy document must specify which
    LiMux-applications will no longer be needed, the extent in which
    prior investments must be written off, and a rough calculation of
    the overall costs of the desired unification.
  </p>

  <p>
    Since this decision was reached, the majority of media have
    reported that a final call was made to halt LiMux and switch back
    to Microsoft software. This is, however, not an accurate
    representation of the outcome of the city council meeting. We
    studied the available documentation and our impression is that the
    last word has not been spoken.
  </p>

  <p>
    We succeeded thus far in forcing the mayor Dieter Reiter (SPD) to
    postpone the final decision, and this was possible through the
    unwavering pressure created by joint efforts between The Document
    Foundation, KDE, OSBA, and the FSFE together with all the
    individuals who wrote to city council members and took the issue
    to the media.
  </p>

  <p>
    Although the mandate is highly suggestive in that it suggests that
    the existing vendor-neutral approach is to be replaced with a
    proprietary solution, it leaves the door open; Or are you aware of
    a commonly-used software standard that ensures maximal
    compatibility in all directions?
  </p>

  <p>
    The new mandate buys us some time. And we will keep going.
  </p>

  <h2>Background information </h2>

  <p>
    What lead to this public hearing on 15 February? In 2014, Dieter
    Reiter was elected new mayor of Munich. He had referred to himself
    as "Microsoft fan" even before he took office. He prides himself
    with having played a major part in the decision to move the
    Microsoft Germany headquarters to downtown Munich. He started to
    question the LiMux strategy as soon as his term started, and asked
    Accenture, a Microsoft partner in the same building as Microsoft,
    to analyse Munich's IT infrastructure. The report can be found
    <a href="https://www.ris-muenchen.de/RII/RII/DOK/SITZUNGSVORLAGE/4277724.pdf">here</a> (German). It's
    noteworthy that in their report, the analysts identify primarily
    organisational issues at the root of the problems troubling LiMux
    uptake, rather than technical challenges.
  </p>

  <p>
    The coalition of SPD and CSU filed a surprise motion with minimal
    lead time before the city council, with the goal to put LiMux to
    rest once and for all.
  </p>
  
<h2>Our reaction</h2>

  <p>
    Given the importance of this matter, an ad-hoc coalition of The
    Document Foundation, KDE, OSBA, and the FSFE
    collected <a href="https://blog.schiessle.org/2017/02/14/rolle-ruckwarts-in-munchen-diese-fragen-sollte-man-sich-stellen/">questions
    about this motion</a> (German), as well as the processes that
    lead up to it. We reached out to all members of the city council
    prior to the public hearing. Additionally, we sent a <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/LiMux/CallForAction">call for
    action</a> (German) to all our supporters in Germany and Austria, asking
    them to get in contact with politicians on this issue. The
    reaction was phenomenal. During the public hearing, politicians
    quoted some of our question, and said that they had never received
    as much input from the public before.
  </p>

  <p>
    Thank you everyone who made this happen!
  </p>

  <p>
    We also generated quite a bit of press coverage this way, not only
    in Germany, but also in other parts of the world. An incomplete
    list of press coverage can be found
    <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/LiMux">here</a>. Please
    share with us any additional material you might know about.
  </p>

  <h2>Conclusion</h2>

  <p>
    LiMux suffered from organisational problems, including lack of
    clear structures and responsibilities, which the Accenture report
    also makes clear. These are independent from the software used on
    client machines, and switching operating systems will not solve
    them.
  </p>

  <p>
    LiMux as such is still one of the best examples of how to create a
    vendor-neutral administration based on Free Software. The project
    was started 13 years ago when the city had to replace their no
    longer supported Windows NT4 workstations. Since then, they
    migrated 15.000 workplaces to vendor-neutral Free Software
    solutions, and Open-Standard-based file formats, supported by
    local IT companies. Overall this initiative displays not only a
    successful move to more independence, but also serves as role
    model of how to strengthen the local IT industry. By solving the
    organisational problems only, Munich could continue to successfully
    foster not only a independent administration but also a strong an
    healthy IT landscape.
  </p>
  
  <h2>Our goal</h2>

  <p>
    We understand that LiMux has not solved all problems, but we
    maintain that the root of the problems are of organisational
    nature, and thus must not be confounded with the technical
    choices.
  </p>

  <p>
    Public infrastructure must stay independent of singular commercial
    interests, that are known to stifle innovation. Free Software
    provides the unique opportunity to invest into common assets and
    benefit from everyone else's contributions, while staying in
    control of what gets deployed, and when. Local service providers
    operating in healthy competition boost the local economy and
    ensure best use of tax payers' money.
  </p>

  <p>
    We also note that the trend moves away from client-side operation
    to more centralised infrastructures, which
    operating-system-independent use across multiple devices and
    users' browsers of choice. It may turn out best for LiMux to
    adjust its focus, while the vendor-neutral strategy must prevail.
  </p>

  <h2>The modified motion, as passed on 15 February</h2>

  <blockquote>
    The following conclusion was reached (overruling the opposition by
    Die Grünen - rosa liste, BAYERNPARTEI Stadtratsfraktion,
    Freiheitsrechte, Transparenz und Bürgerbeteiligung, ÖDP, DIE
    LINKE, LKR und BIA):

    The motion filed before the plenum by SPD and CSU shall have its
    section 6b (new) extended, as shown between the *** markers:

    "The administration shall without delay propose a strategy how to
    unify the city's client-side IT architecture by 2020-12-31,
    building on a yet-to-be-developed 'Windows-Basis-Client'. Baseline
    functionality (word processing, spreadsheets, presentation
    software, PDF reading, e-mail client and Web browser) needs to be
    provided by commonly-used, standard products, which must guarantee
    maximal compatibility with existing internal and external
    processes, as well as other software infrastructure (such as SAP).

    ***
    The strategy must be clear on which applications on LiMux-Basis
    will no longer be needed. The city council is to be informed on
    the extent that this requires write-offs of prior
    investments. Furthermore, a rough budget to illustrate the costs
    associated with the unification is to be presented. The city
    council will then make a final decision.
    ***
    
    Throughout the transition, the various departments are free to
    deploy the new, unified solution building on the
    'Windows-Basis-Client', or continue using their existing,
    multi-tier (Window/LiMux) solution, depending on technical status.

    Strategic goal must remain that administrative tools shall be
    usable independently of the client-side operating system (e.g. web
    apps, virtualisation, remote desktop services)."
  </blockquote>

  <p>
    The original decision is only available in German and can be found
    <a href="https://www.ris-muenchen.de/RII/RII/DOK/TOP/4372059.pdf">here</a>,
    augmenting
    the <a href="https://www.ris-muenchen.de/RII/RII/DOK/SITZUNGSVORLAGE/4367152.pdf">original
    motion</a>.
  </p>

</body>
  <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag content="LiMux">LiMux</tag>
      <tag content="policy">policy</tag>
      <tag content="Deutschland">DE</tag>
      <tag content="München">Munich</tag>
      <tag content="ÖffentlicheVerwaltung">PublicAdministration</tag>
  </tags>

  <author id="schiessle"/>
  
</html>
