<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2017-06-13">

 <head>
    <title>New European Interoperability Framework calls on public sector to contribute to Free Software</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  
  <h1>New European Interoperability Framework calls on public sector to contribute to Free Software</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">The revised "new" <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/isa2/eif_en">European Interoperability Framework</a> (EIF),
  adopted by the European Commission on 23 March 2017, gives specific guidance
  on how to set up interoperable digital public services, and offers public 
  administrations concrete recommendations on how to improve interoperability 
  of their e-services.</p>
  
  <p>The FSFE <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160624-01.en.html">participated</a>
  in the public consultation round on the draft version of the revised 
  EIF (published in 2016). The "new" EIF includes significant improvements 
  in alignment with our answers and in contrast to the draft version and 
  the previous <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/isa2/sites/isa/files/isa_annex_ii_eif_en.pdf">EIF v.2</a>. 
  However, the European Commission (EC) has not sufficiently addressed 
  the risks that a FRAND-based standardisation policy pose to Free Software.</p>

  <p>In alignment with our <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/eif-v3.en.html">answers</a>
  to the public consultation, the new EIF includes the principle of openness 
  that was absent from the draft version. Furthermore, the principle of 
  openness according to the new EIF requires public administrations to 
  actively consider using Free Software when offering their public services:</p>

<blockquote>
	<p>Recommendation 3: Ensure a level playing field for open source 
	software and demonstrate active and fair consideration of using open 
	source software, taking into account the total cost of ownership of 
	the solution.</p>
</blockquote>
  

  <p>Furthermore, according to the new EIF public administrations should 
  not only use Free Software but <strong>"whenever possible contribute to the 
  pertinent developer communities"</strong>. Free Software is also called 
  <strong>"an enabler of the underlying EIF principle on reusability"</strong>. 
  This is a significant improvement in comparison to both previous
  <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/eifv2.en.html">EIF v.2</a>
  (published in 2010) and the <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/files/57b2ecd5-effa-4594-9ef2-47e7ecc67047">draft</a>
  version that was open for public consultation. The need for more Free 
  Software when offering e-services was also <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/isa2/sites/isa/files/eif-public-consultation-factual-summary-en.pdf">expressed</a>
  by majority of citizen respondents to the public consultation, and it
  is plausible to see that the EC included the wishes of the EU citizens 
  to the new EIF. </p>

  <p>Licensing policies of so called "open specifications" (the alternative 
  term the European Commission uses for <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/os.en.html">Open Standards</a> 
  have also been revised for the better. The EIF v.2 based its appropriate 
  licensing model on what is described as "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" 
  (FRAND)/or royalty-free terms, despite that FRAND <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/why-frand-is-bad-for-free-software.en">does not allow standards to be implemented in Free Software</a>.</p>

  <p>The new EIF gives a slight preference to the royalty-free licensing 
  terms when it comes to licensing of "open specifications", which is an 
  improvement to the previous version.</p>
  
  <p>However, the new EIF ignores the fact that "royalty-free" is not a 
  sub-term of FRAND, and the way the new EIF is worded still gives a preference 
  to FRAND terms, but just without royalties. This is extremely problematic, 
  as the effects of FRAND do not solely come from royalty-related criteria, 
  but also include several other restrictions that make FRAND incompatible 
  with Free Software.</p>
  
  <p>Unfortunately, the way the new EIF is basing its licensing policies 
  of open specifications can still prevent Free Software projects from 
  offering their services to the public sector.</p>


</body>
  <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag content="DigitalSingleMarket">DigitalSingleMarket</tag>
      <tag content="policy">policy</tag>
      <tag content="EIF">EIF</tag>
      <tag content="OpenStandards">OpenStandards</tag>
  </tags>
  <author id="polina"/>

</html>
