<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
     <h1>About</h1>
    
    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe is dedicated to the furthering of Free
      Software. Access to software determines who may participate in a digital
      society, therefore we believe <a
      href="/about/basics/freesoftware.en.html">the freedoms to use, copy,
      modify and redistribute software</a> are essential in the information age.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Founded in 2001 as a non-profit non-governmental organisation, the FSFE
      focuses on creating awareness for these issues, securing Free Software
      politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by supporting
      development of Free Software.
    </p>



    <h2>What Free Software is</h2>

    <p>
      Free Software is one important cornerstone for <a
      href="/projects/wsis/fs.en.html">freedom, democracy, human rights and
      development</a> in a digital society. It is essential both in an <a
      href="/documents/eur5greve.en.html">economic</a> and socio-ethical
      context. 
    </p>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Definition of Free Software</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Our vision: why Free Software?</a></li>
      <li><a href="/about/basics/gnuproject.html">What is the GNU project?</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h2>How we work</h2>
    <p>
       As an organisation based upon the European culture and background, we
       believe in and are following fundamental principles such as democracy,
       multilateralism, cooperation, dialog and transparency. In short, we
       operate in a networked, team-based structure that is open to anyone
       sharing the common understanding of FSFE and willing to participate. 
    </p>

    <ul> 
      <li><a href="#">Principles</a></li> 
	  <li><a href="/about/self-conception.html">Self conception</a></li> 
      <li><a href="#">Vision of Cooperation</a></li> 
      <li><a href="/about/basics/whyweexist.html">Why do we exist?</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Who are we</h2>
    
    <p>
      The FSFE gathers a wide range of people across Europe and beyond, 
      dedicated to different levels of action, on a European and global level,
      as well as in local and national situations.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="/about/team.html">European Coordination Team</a></li>
      <li><a href="/contact/local.html">Local Teams</a></li>
      <li><a href="/about/speakerlist.html">Speaker List</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">The Fellowship</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Volunteers</a></li>
    </ul>


    <h2>How our fincances look like</h2>

    <ul>
		<li><a href="/donate/donate.en.html">Support us with a donation</a></li>
		<li><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">Who our donors are</a></li>
		<li><a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Our cash flow</a></li>
    </ul>
      
      
    <h2>What the Press needs</h2>  
       
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/news/news.html">Press Release</a></li>
      <li><a href="/about/graphics/graphics.html">Graphics and Resources</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Facts and Figures</a></li>
      <li><a href="/contact/press.html">Contact information</a></li>
    </ul>


    <h2>How our framework looks like</h2>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="/about/members.html">Members of the Board</a></li>
      <li><a href="/about/legal/index.en.html">Legal Structure</a></li>      
      <li><a href="#">Sister Organisations</a></li>
      <li><a href="/associates/associates.html">Associated Organisations</a></li>
    </ul>
    
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
