<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-9" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div align="right">
      <h2>Xebat jî boy Azâdî<br />
        nâv cihanâ dijîtal.
      </h2>
    </div>

    <h1>Derheq FSFE</h1>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit and (in some
      countries) charitable non-governmental organization dedicated to
      <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Free Software as in freedom</a>.
    </p>

    <h3>Vision of Free Software</h3>

    <p>
      Access to software determines who may participate in a digital society.
      Therefore, the freedoms to use, copy, modify and redistribute software --
      as described in the
      <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Free Software
        definition</a> -- allow equal participation in the information age.
    </p>

    <p>
      The vision of Free Software is one of a stable basis for freedom in a
      digital world -- both in an
      <a href="/documents/eur5greve.html">economic</a> and socio-ethical
      context. Free Software is one important cornerstone for
      <a href="/campaigns/wsis/fs.html">freedom, democracy, human rights and
        development</a> in a digital society.
    </p>

    <p>
      The FSFE is dedicated to supporting all aspects of Free Software in
      Europe. Creating awareness for these issues, securing Free Software
      politically and legally, and giving people freedom by supporting
      development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.
    </p>

    <p>
      For these reasons, FSFE was founded in 2001 as the European sister
      organisation of the
      <a href="http://www.fsf.org">Free Software Foundation</a> in Boston, MA,
      USA. Both are financially, legally and personally independent from each
      other as parts of the international Free Software Foundation network.
    </p>

    <h3>Vision of Cooperation</h3>

    <p>
      The second vision embodied in FSFE is that of a Europe united in the
      spirit of co-operation across cultural boundaries.
    </p>

    <p>
      Not only do we need to deal with the political reality of the European
      Union, which already maintains large parts of the governance touching
      upon the information society, but also we are finding ourselves working
      in a field determined largely by large multinational companies. These
      tend to work with a very high level of integration, coordination and
      consistence between countries on a European and global scale, allowing
      them to further their interest through "divide and conquer" tactics.
    </p>

    <p>
      In and with the FSFE, we stand united and work together on local and
      international levels, speaking with a voice that cannot be ignored.
    </p>

    <h2>Principles</h2>

    <p>
      As an organisation based upon the European culture and background, we
      believe in and are following fundamental principles such as democracy,
      multilateralism, cooperation, dialog and transparency.
    </p>

    <p>
      In short, we operate in a networked, team-based structure that is open to
      anyone sharing the
      <a href="/about/self-conception.html">common understanding</a> of FSFE
      and willing to <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">participate</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      We work hard to live up to these principles as much as possible, even
      though reality in form of limited resources or other problems may at
      times let us fall short of our ideals. If you think you have seen such a
      case and can help us to improve, please get involved either
      <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">directly</a> or through one of our
      <a href="/associates/">associate organisations</a>.
    </p>

    <h2>More Information</h2>

    <ul>
      <li><p>
          <b>How we see ourselves and more:</b><br/>
          <a href="self-conception.html">Self-Conception</a> of the FSFE
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>Who we are:</b><br/>
          <a href="team.html">Team</a> of the FSFE
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>Who is legally responsible:</b><br/>
          <a href="members.html">Members</a> of the association
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>How is this implemented:</b><br/>
          <a href="/about/legal/">Legal Structure</a> of the FSFE
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>What we <a href="/donate/donate.html">received</a> and how we spent
            it:</b><br/>
          <a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash Flow</a> of the FSFE
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>Who are our donors:</b><br/>
          <a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">Thank GNUs</a> of the FSFE
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>If you want to link to our site:</b><br/>
          FSFE <a href="/about/graphics/graphics.html">Artwork and
            Graphics</a>
      </p></li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Sister Organisations</h2>

    <p>
      The following organisations are sister organisations of the FSFE in the
      global FSF network. We are working together legally, financially and
      personally independent of each other in a spirit of equal cooperation.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li><p>
          <b>Free Software Foundation North America</b><br />
          <a href="http://www.fsf.org">http://www.fsf.org</a><br />
          The original Free Software Foundation, located in Boston, MA, USA.
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>Free Software Foundation India</b><br />
          <a href="http://fsf.org.in">http://fsf.org.in</a>
      </p></li>

      <li><p>
          <b>Free Software Foundation Latin America</b><br />
          <a href="http://www.fsfla.org">http://www.fsfla.org</a>
      </p></li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Support</h2>

    <p>
      As a non-profit organisation, we are largely dependent upon people to
      make our activities their own -- either by
      <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">getting involved</a> or through
      <a href="/donate/donate.html">donations</a>. Please do!
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2012-07-20 16:49:36 +0200 (Fr, 20. Jul 2012) $ $Author: samtuke $</timestamp>
  <translator>Abdullah Ulas</translator>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
