<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe</title>
  </head>
  <body>


<div align="right">
<h2>"Working for liberty<br />
in a digital society."</h2>
</div>
<h1>About the FSFE</h1>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit and (in
some countries) charitable non-governmental organization dedicated to
<a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">Free Software as in
freedom</a>.</p>

<h3>Vision of Free Software</h3>

<p>Access to software determines who may participate in a digital
society. Therefore, the freedoms to use, copy, modify and redistribute
software -- as described in the <a
href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">Free Software
definition</a> -- allow equal participation in the information
age.</p>

<p>The vision of Free Software is one of a stable basis for freedom in
a digital world -- both in an <a
href="/documents/eur5greve.html">economic</a> and socio-ethical
context. Free Software is one important cornerstone for <a
href="/projects/wsis/fs.html">freedom, democracy, human rights and
development</a> in a digital society.</p>

<p>The FSFE is dedicated to supporting all aspects of Free Software in
Europe. Creating awareness for these issues, securing Free Software
politically and legally, and giving people freedom by supporting
development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>For these reasons, FSFE was founded in 2001 as the European sister
organisation of the <a href="http://www.fsf.org/fsf/fsf.html">Free
Software Foundation</a> in Boston, MA, USA. Both are financially,
legally and personally independent from each other as parts of the
international Free Software Foundation network.</p>

<h3>Vision of Cooperation</h3>

<p>The second vision embodied in FSFE is that of a Europe united in
the spirit of co-operation across cultural boundaries.</p>

<p>Not only do we need to deal with the political reality of the
European Union, which already maintains large parts of the governance
touching upon the information society, but also we are finding
ourselves working in a field determined largely by large multinational
companies. These tend to work with a very high level of integration,
coordination and consistence between countries on a European and
global scale, allowing them to further their interest through "divide
and conquer" tactics.</p>

<p>In and with the FSFE, we stand united and work together on local
and international levels, speaking with a voice that cannot be
ignored.</p>

<h2>Principles</h2>

<p>As an organisation based upon the European culture and background,
we believe in and are following fundamental principles such as
democracy, multilateralism, cooperation, dialog and
transparency.</p>

<p>In short, we operate in a networked, team-based structure that is
open to anyone sharing the <a
href="/about/self-conception.html">common understanding</a> of FSFE
and willing to <a href="/help/help.html">participate</a>.</p>

<p>We work hard to live up to these principles as much as possible,
even though reality in form of limited resources or other problems may
at times let us fall short of our ideals. If you think you have seen
such a case and can help us to improve, please get involved either <a
href="/help/help.html">directly</a> or through one of our <a
href="/associates/">associate organisations</a>.</p>

<h2>More Information</h2>

<ul>

<li><b>How we see ourselves and more:</b> <br/>
<a href="self-conception.html">Self-Conception</a> of the FSF Europe</li> <br/>

<li><b>Who we are:</b>  <br/>
<a href="team.html">Team</a> of the FSF Europe</li> <br/>

<li><b>Who is legally responsible:</b> <br/>
<a href="members.html">Members</a> of the association</li> <br/>

<li><b>How is this implemented:</b> <br/>
<a href="/about/legal/">Legal Structure</a> of the FSF Europe</li>  <br/>

<li><b>What we <a href="/help/donate.html">received</a> and how we spent it:</b>  <br/>
<a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash Flow</a> of the FSF Europe</li> <br/>

<li><b>Who are our donors:</b>  <br/>
<a href="/help/thankgnus.html">Thank GNUs</a> of the FSF Europe</li> <br/>

<li><b>If you want to link to our site:</b>  <br/>
FSF Europe <a href="/about/graphics/graphics.html">Artwork and Graphics</a></li> <br/>

<li><b>If you have further questions:</b>  <br/>
Try the <a href="faq.html">FSF Europe FAQ</a></li> <br/>

</ul>

<h2>Sister Organisations</h2>

<p>The following organisations are sister organisations of the FSFE in the global FSF network. We are working together legally,
financially and personally independent of each other in a spirit of
equal cooperation.
<ul>
<li><b>Free Software Foundation North America</b><br />
<code><a href="http://www.fsf.org/fsf/fsf.html">http://www.fsf.org/fsf/fsf.html</a></code><br />
The original Free Software Foundation, located in Boston, MA, USA.</li><br />
<li><b>Free Software Foundation India</b><br />
<code><a href="http://fsf.org.in">http://fsf.org.in</a></code></li>
</ul>
</p>

<h2>Support</h2>

<p>As a non-profit organisation, we are largely dependent upon people
to make our activities their own -- either by <a
href="/help/help.html">getting involved</a> or through <a
href="/help/donate.html">donations</a>. Please do!</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


