<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->

<div align="right">
<h2>"Working to preserve the basic<br />
liberties in a digital society."</h2>
</div>
<h1>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h1>

<h2>Vision</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF Europe) is a charitable
non-governmental organization largely based upon two visions.</p>

<p>Firstly the vision of Free Software as a stable basis for freedom
in a digital world -- both in an economic and socio-ethical context.
Access to software determines who may participate in a digital
society. Therefore the freedoms to use, copy, modify and redistribute
software - as described in the Free Software definition - allow equal
participation in the information age.</p>

<p>Therefore the FSF Europe is dedicated to all aspects of Free
Software in Europe. Creating awareness for these issues, securing Free
Software politically and legally, and giving people freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSF
Europe, which was founded in 2001 as the European financially, legally
and personally independent sister organization of the <a
href="http://www.fsf.org/fsf/fsf.html">Free Software Foundation</a> in
Boston, MA, USA.</p>

<p>The second vision is that of a Europe united in the spirit of
cooperation across cultural boundaries.</p>

<p>Not only do we need to deal with the political reality of the
European Union, which already maintains large parts of the governance
touching upon the information society, but also we are finding
ourselves working in a field determined largely by large multinational
companies. These tend to work with a very high level of integration,
coordination and consistence between countries on a European and
global scale, allowing them to further their interest through "divide
and conquer" tactics.</p>

<p>In and with the FSF Europe we stand united and work together on
local and international levels, speaking with a voice that cannot be
ignored.</p>

<h2>Implementation</h2>

<p>As an organization based upon the European culture and background,
we believe in and are following fundamental principles such as
democracy, multilateralism, cooperation, dialog and transparency.</p>

<p>We work hard to live up to these principles as much as possible,
but due to limited resources or other problems, we may at times fall
short of achieving perfection in them. In these cases, please feel
free to <a href="/help/help.html">help us</a> or get involved either
directly or through one of our <a href="/associates/">associate
organizations</a>.</p>

<h2>More Information</h2>

<ul>

<h3><a href="members.html">Members</a> of the FSF Europe</h3> 

<h3><a href="/about/legal/">Legal Structure</a> of the FSF Europe</h3> 

<h3><a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash Flow</a> of the FSF Europe</h3> 

<h3><a href="volunteers.html">Permanent Volunteers</a> of the FSF Europe</h3>

<h3>FSF Europe <a href="/about/graphics/graphics.html">Artworks and Graphics</a></h3>

</ul>

<h2>Sister Organizations</h2> 

<p>The following organizations are sister organizations of the FSF
Europe in the global FSF network. We are working together legally,
financially and personally independent of each other in a spirit of
equal cooperation.
<ul>
<li><b>Free Software Foundation North America</b><br />
<code><a href="http://www.fsf.org/fsf/fsf.html">http://www.fsf.org/fsf/fsf.html</a></code><br />
The original Free Software Foundation, located in Boston, MA, USA.</li><br />
<li><b>Free Software Foundation India</b><br />
<code><a href="http://fsf.org.in">http://fsf.org.in</a></code></li>
</ul>
</p>

<h2>Further Questions</h2>

<p>If you have further questions, you might find the answers in the
<a href="faq.html">FSF Europe FAQ</a>.</p>

<!-- End page content -->
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$ 
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


