<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Code of Conduct - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article" id="codeofconduct">
    <p id="category"><a href="/about/">About</a></p>
    <h1>Code of Conduct</h1>

    <p id="introduction" class="p-summary">
      The CoC in a nutshell: The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) and its
      community aim to offer a friendly and peaceful environment for every
      participant at the FSFE's events, online and offline. All participants at
      any FSFE event are expected to behave excellently towards each other.
      Misbehaviour can lead to exclusion from our events and/or our technical
      infrastructure. If you have been in a situation in which the spirit of
      the Code of Conduct was breached, please be in touch with our <a
      href="#CARE">central CARE team</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      Free Software is about freedom and so is our community. We like to
      collaborate and work together with respect to different opinions, skills
      and interests. We as a welcoming community encourage all participants to
      be excellent to each other.
    </p>

    <p>
      This Code of Conduct applies at all physical events hosted by the FSFE as
      well as to our online infrastructure. The latter includes but is not
      limited to our mailing lists, wikis, social media, groups, forums and any
      other means of digital communication that are hosted and/or moderated by
      the FSFE. The Code of Conduct applies equally to all participants
      including, but not limited to, speakers, volunteers, staffers,
      exhibitors, etc.
    </p>

    <h2>Code of Conduct</h2>

    <p>
      We invite and encourage everybody to express their opinions on relevant
      topics. All participants should at all times feel at ease to do so
      without fearing any form of attack, reprisal or harassment. We ask
      everybody to be respectful and considerate towards each other, especially
      when attempting to provide constructive criticism.
    </p>

    <p>
      To foster tolerance, respect and hospitality in our community, we agree
      not to engage in discriminatory, disparaging or offensive speech or
      actions, including as to (but not limited to) gender, sexuality, race,
      nationality, religion or profession. We are a community of many different
      nationalities and backgrounds, and we cherish our strength in diversity.
    </p>

    <h2>Enforcement</h2>

    <p>
      If you have experienced or become aware of behaviour contrary to the
      principles enshrined in this Code of Conduct, please bring such incidents
      to the attention of your respective local or our <a href="#CARE">central
	      CARE team</a> (CARE = CoC Active Response Ensurers) as soon as
      possible. You will find local CARE team contact information depending on
      the individual event.
    </p>

    <p>
      Please feel free to share the Code of Conduct with participants in
      discussions, both online and offline, to ensure a respectful and
      welcoming environment. The Free Software Foundation Europe reserves the
      right to deny entrance and/or eject from an event or any of its
      infrastructure (e.g. wiki, mailing lists, etc) any individual found to be
      engaging in misconduct contrary to the principles highlighted above.
    </p>

    <h2 id="CARE">Central CARE Team</h2>

    <p>
      The central CARE team may be reached by e-mail at <a href="mailto:care at
	      fsfe dot org">care at fsfe dot org</a>. The CARE team members are
      listed below, and you are welcome to contact them individually too.
    </p>

    <div id="team" class="section grid-100">
	<care-team-list />
    </div>

    <p>
      Complaints about the CARE team members should be directed to <a
	      href="/about/team.html">the president of FSFE</a>.
    </p>
  </body>

  <sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
