<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Free Software Foundation Europe - Frequently Answered Questions (FAQ)</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<h1>Free Software Foundation Europe</h1>
<h2>Frequently Answered Questions (FAQ)</h2>
</center>

<ul>

<li><a name="help"></a><b>Q: How can I help you?</b>
<p>Being a non-profit, in many areas volunteer-driven Non-Governmental
Organisation (NGO), our resources &#8212; and hence our capabilities
to do our work &#8212; largely depend on volunteer contribution and
donations.</p>

<p>So if you would like us to do more or simply enable us to keep
working, please help us either with your <a
href="/help/help.html">volunteer work</a>, a <a
href="/help/donate.html">donation</a> or both.</p></li>

<li><a name="associatemembership"></a><b>Q: Why do you not have an
"associate membership" like the FSF North America?</b><p>A: FSF
Europe has considered this in the past - in fact we have been
receiving requests for something like this as since 2001. We did
consider it, but have decided against it for the FSF
Europe.</p><p>Our main reason for deciding against associate membership was that we
felt it was problematic to call normal donors "members" if they do not
get the right to vote. This is not so unusual in the United States,
especially for U.S. book clubs and such, but for a European
organisation working in the political field it did not seem
fitting.</p><p>We are considering other possible alternatives to
give people some goodies for supporting the FSF Europe,
though.</p><p>The <a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/">sponsoring
buttons</a> were a first step, but there will be more.</p></li>

<li><a name="who"></a><b>Q: Who are the members that make up FSF
Europe?</b><p>A: People from different European countries, usually with a
long history in Free Software. A list of members is available <a
href="members.html">here</a>.</p></li>

<li><a name="member"></a><b>Q: How can I become member of the FSF
Europe?</b>

<p>A: Warning: It is possible that the question you really meant to
ask is "<a href="#getinvolved">How can I get involved in the FSF
Europe?</a>" -- please read on to decide for yourself.</p>

<p>As the major Free Software Foundations (such as the FSF Europe)
maintain the legal aspects of the GNU Project including maintaining
the GPL, LGPL, GFDL licenses or legal documents such as the <a
href="/projects/fla/">Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</a>,
membership in the FSF cannot be entirely open. Otherwise we'd
jeopardize our ability to defend these against hostile takeover.</p>
<p>Also because of the often highly political and legal nature of our
work, we sometimes need to find a compromise that we may not
be entirely happy with, but that our members are then bound to.</p>
<p>Consequently, membership in the FSF Europe requires a high level of
personal dedication and willingness to rate the needs of Free Software
above personal interests. Not everyone is willing to or capable of
making that commitment.</p>

<p>When people are willing to make such a commitment, new members are
appointed by act of the general assembly when 3/4 of all existing
members are convinced the applicant understand the long term issues of
Free Software and wants to devote a large part of his or her life to
this task. We hope to have 3-4 members (but not much more) from each
European country at some point.</p>

<p>Should you consider this for yourself, we recommend starting to
work with us so we can get to know each other.</p>

<p>So regardless of whether you really meant to ask this question or
whether you just wanted to know how to get involved, it might be
useful to read on at "<a href="#getinvolved">How can I get involved in
the FSF Europe?</a>"</p>
</li>

<li><a name="getinvolved"></a><b>Q: How can I get involved in the FSF
Europe?</b>

<p>
A: There are several ways to get involved in the activities of the FSF
Europe. If you just wish to get active doing some things, you might
have a look at the <a href="/help/help.html">Help Section</a>.</p>

<p>If you wish to work with us, you could either seek direct <a
href="/contact/contact.html">contact</a> or get involved in the FSF
Europe through working in the <a href="/associates/">Associate
Organisations</a>.</p>

<p>There is no limit but your engagement on how involved you can
become in the internal workings of the FSF Europe once we get to know
each other.</p>
</li>

<li><a name="volunteers"></a><b>Q: Someone claimed to be working for
you, is this true?</b><p>A: We have many people who work with and for
us on a regular basis, so even if you get contacted by someone with an
email address that does not seem related, this person may be working
in our name. Chances are you will find that person on our list of <a
href="volunteers.html">Permanent Volunteers</a>. Otherwise please <a
href="/contact/contact.html">ask us</a> if you want to be
sure.</p></li>

<li><a name="legal"></a><b>Q: What is your legal status/structure?</b><p>A:
As Europe is still quite a way from being legally united, a modular
solution had to be found. You can find more information <a
href="/about/legal/">here</a>.</p></li>

<li><a name="graphics"></a><b>Q: Where do I find the FSF Europe Logo
   and other Artwork?</b><p>A: They are online <a
   href="graphics/graphics.html">here</a>.</p></li>

</ul>

<!-- End page content -->
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$ 
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


