<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe - Local Teams</title>
    
    <style type="text/css">
      .city { margin-left:2em; }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
		<p id="category"><a href="/about/">About</a></p>
    <h1>Local FSFE Groups</h1>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation is a non-profit association that started to be built by volunteers. Today, the FSFE has some paid staff to make daily operation smooth and possible. Still, FSFE's work would not be possible without the help of volunteers and the backening of the community. Many community and team members cooperate via Internet or other media, while others prefer to meet people face-to-face. That's how local FSFE meetings have been established. <br />
      If you are looking for contact, if you are looking for information or if you like to join a group, you can find your local contact partner on this page. 
    </p>
    
    <div id="show-people">
    
	<h2>Fellowship representatives</h2>
	  <p>Fellowship repesentatives are elected by the Fellows once a year and they represent the Fellowship and their interests inside FSFE's General Assembly.</p>
	   <representatives-members />
    
	<h2 id="austria">Austria</h2>
	  <h3><a href="https://fsfe.org/at/">Country Team Austria</a></h3>
	  <p>Country teams - if established - are there to bring different local Fellowship groups in contact and to coordinate joint efforts.</p>
	    <austria-members />
	
	  <h3 class="city"><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Linz/">Local Group Linz</a></h3>
	    <linz-members />
	    
	  <h3 class="city"><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Vienna">Local Group Vienna</a></h3>
	    <vienna-members />
	    
	<h2 id="belgium">Belgium</h2>
	  <h3>Country Team Belgium</h3>
	    <belgium-members />
      
	<h2>Denmark</h2>
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Aarhus">Local Group Aarhus</a></h3>
	    <aarhus-members />
    
        <h2>France</h2>
          <h3><a href="https://fsfe.org/fr/">Country Team France</a></h3>
	  <h3><a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Paris/">Local Group Paris</a></h3>
	    <paris-members />

        <h2 id="germany">Germany</h2>
	  <h3><a href="https://fsfe.org/de/">Country Team Germany</a></h3>
	  <p>Country teams - if established - are there to bring different local Fellowship groups in contact and to coordinate joint efforts.</p>
	    <germany-members />
        
	  <h3 class="city"><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Berlin">Local Group Berlin</a></h3>
	    <berlin-members />   
        
	  <h3 class="city"><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Bonn">Local Group Bonn</a></h3>
	    <bonn-members />
        
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Cologne">Local Group Cologne</a></h3>
	    <cologne-members />
        
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Duesseldorf">Local Group Düsseldorf</a></h3>
	    <duesseldorf-members />
        
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Hamburg">Local Group Hamburg</a></h3>
	    <hamburg-members />
        
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Muenchen">Local Group Munich</a></h3>
	    <munich-members />
	    
	  <h3><a href="http://www.wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Rhein-Main">Local Group Rhein-Main</a></h3>
	    <frankfurt-members />
	    
	<h2 id="greece">Greece</h2>
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Athens">Local Group Athens</a></h3>
	    <athens-members />
	    
        
	<h2 id="italy">Italy</h2>
	  <h3>Country Team Italy</h3>
	  <p>Country teams - if established - are there to bring different local Fellowship groups in contact and to coordinate joint efforts.</p>
	    <italy-members />
	    
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Bari">Local Group Bari</a></h3>
	      <bari-members />
        
        <h2 id="netherlands">Netherlands</h2>
        <p>Country teams - if established - are there to bring different local Fellowship groups in contact and to coordinate joint efforts.</p>
	  <h3>Country Team Netherlands</h3>
	    <netherlands-members />
	    
	    
	 <h2 id="spain">Spain</h2>
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Barcelona">Local Group Barcelona</a></h3>
	    <barcelona-members />
	    
	 
	 <h2 id="switzerland">Switzerland</h2>
	  <h3><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Zurich">Local Group Zurich</a></h3>
	    <zurich-members />
	    
	    
	 <h2 id="uk">United Kingdom</h2>
	  <h3><a href="http://freeasinfreedom.org.uk/">Local Group Manchester</a></h3>
	    <manchester-members />
        
        

    </div>
  </body>
  <followup>join</followup>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
