<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe - Members</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Members</h1>

    <p>
      These are the members of the Free Software Foundation Europe association
      in alphabetical order.
    </p>

    <dynamic-content />

    <h3>Structural Information</h3>

    <p>
      The people listed here are members of the legal body (association)
      providing the skeleton of the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) --
      it is important to understand that they are only one part of the Free
      Software Foundation Europe.
    </p>

    <p>
      The <a href="self-conception.html">common understanding of the FSFE</a>
      will tell you more about what the FSFE really is, the
      <a href="/about/legal/">legal structure</a> will tell you more about how
      that legal skeleton has been set up in detail.
    </p>

    <p>
      In general terms: although perceiving itself as a truly European
      organization including, but not being limited to, the European Union
      (EU), there was no usable legal basis for establishing things legally on
      this level.
    </p>

    <p>
      Therefore a modular structure had to be found in which local chapters are
      attached by constitution, guidelines and members to a central
      organisation, often referred to as the &quot;Hub,&quot; which is the main
      body of the FSFE. This Hub (by happenstance) turned out to be a
      charitable, registered association in Germany.
    </p>

    <p>
      All people listed above are members of that Hub.
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2011-02-16 14:25:46 +0100 (Mi, 16. Feb 2011) $ $Author: samtuke $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
