<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe - Self-Conception</title>
  </head>
  <body>

<center>
<div align="right">
<b>Europe, August 2004</b>
</div>

<h1>Free Software Foundation Europe</h1>
<h2>Self-Conception</h2>
</center>

<h3>Declaration</h3>

<ul>
<p>We, the people of the <a href="http://fsfeurope.org">Free Software
Foundation Europe</a> (FSFE), see ourselves as Europeans from
different cultures with the shared goal of cooperation across cultures
and developing a common culture of cooperation from regional to global
level.</p>

<p>Together, we form a non-profit non-governmental organization and
network that itself is part of a global network of equals with common
goals and visions. We are not representative for anyone but ourselves
and our work. Our common work and dedication to freedom in all aspects
of the digital society is what defines us.</p>

<p>With a Free Software community that is growing faster every day, it
becomes more important to keep the vision of Free Software healthy,
solid and alive. In some cases, increased political interest in our
issues also creates desire to instrument them for personal particular
interests regardless of the medium- and long-term effects.</p>

<p>Therefore, central component of our work is keeping the legal,
political and social base of Free Software strong, secure and free of
particular interests. This requires deep understanding of Free
Software and related issues. More importantly, it requires above all
being primarily committed to the long-term vision.</p>

<p>We understand this sometimes means having to accept short-term or even
medium-term disadvantages in order to remain true to our principles,
which will generally be hard to communicate and occasionally even
unpopular.</p>
</ul><br />

<h3>Principles</h3>
<ul>
<p>We feel strongly committed to the principles of democracy,
transparency, plurality, consistency, reliability and focus.</p>

<p>In the light of high responsibility in legal issues and the need to
remain decisive even in difficult times, our structure aims to
implement the above principles as well as possible.</p>
</ul><br />

<h3>Structural Overview</h3>
<ul>
<p>Voluntary work and contribution is the fundament on which everything
rests. Different levels of involvement exist. The personal level of
involvement is primarily a personal decision.</p>

<p>Everyone is welcome to occasionally, regularly or permanently
participate in the activities of the Free Software Foundation Europe
(FSFE) and make its activities their own.</p>

<p>If you wish to become part of the Free Software Foundation Europe, you
can join one of our teams -- either geographically or thematically --
and take responsibility to work and act in the name of the FSFE. </p>

<p>The country-based teams are generally coordinated by the members of
the association (see below) responsible for these countries. The
thematic teams are either coordinated by members of the association,
members of the teams or members of an associated organization (see
below).</p>

<p>If you wish to become part of the Free Software Foundation Europe but
do not have the time to do work, you might also choose to become a
<a href="#fellowship">fellow</a> of the FSFE.</p>

<p>If your association pursues similar goals to those of the Free
Software Foundation Europe and wishes to establish formal cooperation,
it can become an <a href="/associates/">associate organization</a> of
the FSFE, thus becoming part of the FSFE network.</p>

<p>The skeleton of the Free Software Foundation Europe is the formal
and legally established <a href="/about/legal/">association</a> with
its chapters in the different countries. Membership in this
association requires the highest commitment, measured in years of
dedication and the responsibility to put long-term consensus over
personal opinion.</p>

<p>This organization is fundamentally democratic and all parts of the
FSFE -- members of the association, members of the teams, as well as
fellows and members of associate organizations -- are welcome to
actively participate in its decision finding processes.</p>

<p>Members of the association are usually proposed by members of the
teams and the associate organizations from their countries. They are
then approved by the general assembly of the FSFE association.</p>

<p>Although voluntary contributions in terms of work and resources are
the grounds of our work, we recognize that some of these tasks cannot
be undertaken as part-time activities and therefore require full-time
activity. </p>

<p>Normal employees of the Free Software Foundation Europe are part of
the executive only and do not become part of the general decision
finding processes.</p>

<p>Any decision about employment/payment must ultimately be agreed upon
by the general assembly of the members of the association.</p>

<p>Main criterion for this decision are the needs of the Free Software
Foundation Europe in terms of successfully pursuing its goals. Whenver
possible, we try to hire the person for the job that has already done
the job without getting paid -- either within the FSFE structures or
without -- because knowledge, dedication and initiative are virtues
embedded in the FSFE.</p>

<p>Ideally we will allow someone to dedicate themselves fully to a task
that was already important enough to them to receive much of their
available resources.</p>
</ul><br />

<h3>Decision Processes</h3>
<ul>
<p>We, the people of the Free Software Foundation Europe believe in
consensus. By default, we always seek to base our work on the
consensus -- and sometimes compromise -- of our active people.</p>

<p>Also we believe in capability for quick and decisive action, when
necessary. For this reason we have established the FSFE association
and its extended executive committees on European and national
levels. These provide fall-back structures and procedures that are
determined, monitored and controlled through democratic processes.</p>

<p>This approach was adopted in search of a structure that will allow
transparency, plurality and participation, at the same time remaining
as lightweight as possible.</p>

<p>While ensuring the possibility of participation by all parts of the
Free Software Foundation Europe -- members of the association, members
of the teams and members of associate organizations -- it allows the
FSFE to act quickly when necessary and maintain a strong
organizational long-term consistency.</p>
</ul><br />

<hr />

<ul>
<li><a name="#fellowship"></a><b>Note:</b> The fellowship program is
currently under construction and should become available in late 2004</li>

</ul>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2004/08/13 15:11:54 $ $Author: greve $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


