<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Speaker list</title>
    <style type="text/css">
      #speakerslist > li{
         margin-top:1.5em;
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <center>
      <h1>FSFE's Speaker list</h1>
      <h2>"free as a speech"</h2>
   </center>

  <h3>Speakers of the Free Software Foundation Europe.</h3>

    <p> If you have a request for speakers who can represent the Free Software Foundation 
    Europe and serve the Free Software movement at a conference, event or panel discussion, 
    this page is made for you.<br />
If you would like to invite one of these speakers to an event, please contact the speaker <a href="mailto:greve-assist@fsfeurope.org">via email</a>.
    </p>

    <ul style="margin-top:2em;" id="speakerslist">
      <li><strong>Bernhard Reiter</strong> is especially good at explaining how to build an 
      ethical business with Free Software.<br />
      He can also speak about Free Software development, funding Free Software, and about the 
      history of the Free Software Foundation Europe. He speaks English and German.</li>

      <li><strong>Ciaran O'Riordan</strong>'s prefered topics are : 
        <ul>
          <li>Why no Software patents ?</li>
          <li>The campaign against Software patents</li>
          <li>GNU GPL version 3</li>
          <li>Free Software licensing</li>
          <li>Free Software lobbying in the European Parliament</li>
        </ul>
        Ciaran speaks English
      </li>

      <li><strong>Georg C.F Greve</strong> can discuss about Free Software from different 
      angles: the philosophical, social, scientific, economic, educational, and the political aspects.<br />
      He also can deliver speeches about open standards, the political challenges of the digital 
      society, and about the Free Software Foundation Europe.<br />
      Georg speaks English and German fluently.</li>

      <li><strong>Henrik Sandklef</strong> can speak about these topics :
        <ul>
          <li>Free Software principles and practices</li>
          <li>Free Software development and the GNU project</li>
          <li>Free Software in education</li>
        </ul>
      Henrik speaks English and Swedish fluently.</li>

      <li><strong>Ivan Jelic</strong> can discuss about :
        <ul>
          <li>Free Software history and philosophy</li>
          <li>Free Software for free society (impacts)</li>
          <li>Importance of free licenses</li>
          <li>Free Software communities in transitions countries</li>
        </ul>
      Ivan speaks English and Serbo-Croatian.</li>

      <li><strong>Jonas Öberg</strong> can speak about: 
        <ul>
          <li>Free Software History and Philosophy</li>
          <li>Freedom of Information and Free Software</li>
          <li>Free Software Business Models and Practices</li>
          <li>Free Software Licensing</li>
          <li>GNU GPL version 3</li>
          <li>SELF (Science, Education and Learning in Freedom)</li>
          <li>Education on Free Software</li>
          <li>Civil Society Engagement in Research (STACS)</li>
        </ul>
       Jonas speaks English and Swedish fluently.</li>

       <li><strong>Marcus Rejas</strong> can deliver speeches about:
         <ul>
           <li>Free Software
            <ul>
             <li>Principles</li>
             <li>History</li>
             <li>Practical use</li>
            </ul>
           </li>
           <li>Licensing
             <ul>
               <li>Free Software Licencing (in general)</li>
               <li>Principles of most common free software licenses</li>
               <li>Licensing in special conditions (user/delveloping/etc).</li>
             </ul>
           </li>
         </ul>
         Marcus speaks English and Swedish.
       </li>

       <li><strong>Matthias Kirschner</strong> can speak to audiences on a range of topics 
       around Free Software, including:
        <ul>
         <li>Basics of Free Software</li>
         <li>History of Free Software and the Free Software Foundation Europe</li>
         <li>Political Aspects of Free Software</li>
         <li>Free Software in public administration</li>
        </ul>
        Matthias speaks English and German. 
       </li>

      <li><strong>Shane Martin Coughlan</strong> can deliver speeches especially about:
       <ul>
        <li>Free Software history and philosophy</li>
        <li>The importance of Free licenses</li>
        <li>The use of Free Software licenses</li>
        <li>Strategic implementation of Free Software in business</li>
       </ul>
       Shane speaks English
      </li>

      <li><strong>Pablo Machon</strong> can discuss about:
       <ul>
        <li>Free Software and Free Knowledge: philosophy, principles and practice</li>
        <li>Free Software in the Public Administration</li>
        <li>Political Parties and Government approach to Free Software.</li>
        <li>Running a Free Software-only company - a sucess story.</li>
        <li>Free Software Business Models and Sustainability.</li>
        <li>Free Software in Education plans</li>
       </ul>
       Pablo speaks English and Spanish
      </li>
    </ul>
   
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2008/07/31 18:37:15 $ $Author: xavi_ $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
