<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Free Software Foundation Europe statement on a public post from 20 December 2020</title>
    <style type="text/css">
      .topbanner {
        display: none;
      }
      .share-buttons {
        display: none;
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Free Software Foundation Europe statement on a public post from 20 December 2020</h1>

    <p>22 December 2020</p>

    <p>On 20 December 2020, a public post was circulated
    about a lawsuit in which the author claims that the Free Software
    Foundation Europe ended an employment relationship with a former
    staffer. Although it is our usual policy not to comment publicly on
    internal personnel matters for privacy reasons (our ex-employee has
    not agreed on more detail), we felt it necessary to state
    unequivocally that this post does not reflect the reality of the
    facts and contradicts the verdict by the Berlin Labour Court.</p>

    <p>The court judgement of 19 November 2020 (reference number 42 Ca
    5723/20) did not acknowledge any factual basis to the assertions.
    Furthermore the judges concluded that our former employee's own
    statements prove that she “neither experienced hostility, nor was
    she offended, nor in another form intimidated or demeaned”.
    Additionally they found, she received equal treatment, and that
    “the boundaries of socially acceptable conduct” were “not
    exceeded”.</p>

    <p>Until the end of the proceedings, we do not wish to comment any
    further. In the meantime we discourage speculation, the former
    employee confirmed to us through her lawyer on 22 December 2020
    that she does not support speculation about names and we respect
    that wish.</p>

    <p>Free Software is meant to serve everyone regardless of their
    age, ability or disability, gender identity, sex, race, nationality, religion,
    or sexual orientation. True to this principle, we pay our staff
    based on their qualifications and performance, without reference to
    any of the characteristics listed. To promote inclusivity and
    equality in the Free Software community, our recruitment process <a
    href="/news/2018/news-20180716-01.en.html#howtoapply">gives
    preference to applicants</a> who identify as part of
    underrepresented groups in technology for applications of equal
    strength.</p>

    <p>Furthermore, together with our <a
    href="/about/codeofconduct.en.html#CARE">CARE team</a>, we aim to
    offer a friendly and safe environment for every participant in our
    activities, both online and offline. Misbehaving can lead to
    exclusion from our organisation, our activities and/or our
    technical infrastructure, no matter the perpetrator's position
    and/or reputation within the organisation or the Free Software
    community. These commitments are not just words: in the past,
    breaches of the <a href="/about/codeofconduct.en.html">FSFE’s Code
    of Conduct</a> have led to such exclusions.</p>

    <p>In the interest of protecting the privacy and moral integrity of
    all involved, including our current or former employees, we wish to
    refrain from commenting further at this stage. Finally, we urge
    members of our community to refrain from personal attacks or
    pressure on any of the parties involved, especially on social
    media. </p>

  </body>

</html>
