<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe - Team</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>The FSF Europe Team</h1>

    <p>
      These people are working for and with the FSF Europe on a regular basis,
      so they have been given permanent responsibilities and authorities for
      certain areas. Some of them are
      <a href="members.html">voting members</a>, some are not.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>Antonella Beccaria</b>
        - Italian team
        - Italian press office coordination
        <br />
        Antonella suggests the communication strategy of the Italian
        Chapter and writes its press releases. When necessary she also
        translates from french.
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Volker Dormeyer</b>
        - German team
        - Tradeshows &amp; Events
        <br />
        Volker Dormeyer is often put in charge of the FSF Europe booth
        at events like tradeshows and has organised many FSF Europe
        booths at tradeshows and fairs.
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Christopher R. Gabriel</b>
        - Vice-Chancellor of the Italian chapter
        <br />
        Email: gabriel at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Martin Gerwinski</b>
        - German team
        - Office
        <br />
        Email: martin.gerwinski at office.fsfeurope.org
        <br />
        Martin Gerwinski is working in the FSF Europe office. He contributes
        partially on time sponsored by his company and partially in his own
        time.
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Peter Gerwinski</b>
        - Member of the German chapter
        <br />
        Email: gerwinski at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b><a href="/about/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a></b>
        - President
        <br />
        Email: greve at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Georg Jakob</b>
        - Member of the Austrian chapter
        <br />
        Email: jakob at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Joachim Jakobs</b>
        - German team
        - Press Speaker
        <br />
        Email: joachim.jakobs at office.fsfeurope.org
        <br />
        Joachim Jakobs is working partially as a volunteer and partially
        on paid basis for the FSFE. He is acting press speaker of the
        FSFE and also helps with internal coordination and communication
        issues.
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Werner Koch</b>
        - Head of Office &amp; Vice-Chancellor of the German chapter
        <br />
        Email: koch at fsfeurope.org<br />
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Karin Kosina</b>
        - Member of the Austrian chapter
        <br />
        Email: kosina at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b><a href="/about/maffulli/">Stefano Maffulli</a></b>
        - Chancellor of the Italian chapter
        <br />
        Email: maffulli at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Reinhard Müller</b>
        - Member of the Austrian chapter
        <br />
        Email: mueller at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Bernhard Reiter</b>
        - Chancellor of the German chapter
        <br />
        Email: reiter at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Cristian Rigamonti</b>
        - Italian team
        - Webmaster and translator English-to-Italian
        <br />
        Cristian mantains the Italian version of FSF Europe's web site.  He
        also translates from English and works in coordination with the Italian
        press office and other webmasters.
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Alessandro Rubini</b>
        - Member of the Italian chapter
        <br />
        Email: rubini at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Christian Selig</b>
        - German team
        - Education Activities
        <br />
        Christian Selig has volunteered to coordinate the activities of
        the FSF Europe in the educational area.
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>Jonas Öberg</b>
        - Vice-President
        <br />
        Email: oberg at fsfeurope.org
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2004/06/06 11:19:23 $ $Author: reinhard $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
