<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>About Free Software Foundation Europe - Volunteers</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->

    <h1>Permanent Volunteers</h1>

    <p>These people are working for and with the FSF Europe on a
    regular basis, so they have been given permanent responsibilities
    and authorities for certain areas.</p>

    <ul>

     <li><b>Volker Dormeyer</b> - Tradeshows &amp; Events<br />

        Volker Dormeyer is often put in charge of the FSF Europe booth
        at events like tradeshows and has organised many FSF Europe
        booths at tradeshows and fairs.

      </li><br />

     <li><b>Martin Gerwinski</b> - Office<br />

       Email: <a href="mailto:martin.gerwinski@office.fsfeurope.org">martin.gerwinski@office.fsfeurope.org</a><br />

       Martin Gerwinski is working together with Kai Keller in the FSF
       Europe office. He contributes partially on time sponsored by his company and partially in his own time.

      </li><br />

     <li><b>Kai Keller</b> - Office<br />

       Email: <a href="mailto:kai.keller@office.fsfeurope.org">kai.keller@office.fsfeurope.org</a><br />

       Kai Keller is working together with Martin Gerwinski in the FSF
       Europe office. He does this partially on time sponsored by his company and partially on his own time.

      </li><br />

     <li><b>Christian Selig</b> - Education Activities<br />

      Christian Selig has volunteered to coordinate the activities of
      the FSF Europe in the educational area.

      </li><br />

      <li><b>Cristian Rigamonti</b> - Webmaster and translator english-to-italian<br />

       Cristian mantains italian version of FSF Europe's web site.  He
       also translates from english and works in coordination with the
       press office and other webmasters.

      </li><br />

    </ul>

    <p>All of these volunteers do an invaluable job. They and all the
    other volunteers are an essential part of the FSF Europe, and
    without them it would not be the same.</p>

<!-- End page content -->
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$ 
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


