<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2013-06-12">
  <head>
    <title>German Parliament tells government to strictly limit patents on software</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>

    <h1>German Parliament tells government to strictly limit patents on software</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">On Friday the 7th of June the German Parliament <a
      href="http://www.bundestag.de/dokumente/textarchiv/2013/45033928_kw23_angenommen_abgelehnt/index.html">decided
      upon</a> a <a href="http://dip.bundestag.de/btd/17/130/1713086.pdf">joint
      motion to limit software patents</a> (see <a
      href="http://l.fsfe.org/bikt-swpat-en.pdf">English translation by
      BIKT</a>). The Parliament urges the German Government to take steps to
    limit the granting of patents on computer programs. Software should
    exclusively be covered by copyright, and the rights of the copyright
    holders should not be devalued by third parties' software patents.  The
    only exception where patents should be allowed are computer programs which
    replace a mechanical or electromagnetic component. In addition the
    Parliament made clear that governmental actions related to patents must
    never interfere with the legality of distributing Free Software.</p>

    <blockquote><p>"This  is an important step to fix the software patent
      insanity. The FSFE highly  welcomes this decision. It's great to see that
      all of Germany's major parties understand that software patents are a
      huge problem and that they are acting accordingly," says  Matthias
      Kirschner, FSFE's coordinator for Germany.</p></blockquote>

    <p>Tens of thousands of software patents in Germany and Europe present
    enormous cost and liability risks, especially for SMEs. Several German SME
    associations welcomed the Parliament's decision. However they warn against
    giving all the responsibility to Brussels, as the EU has been consistently
    incapable of providing software developers with legal certainty. "Germany
    now has to implement this decision in law, to send a strong signal towards
    Brussels," says Johannes Sommer of BIKT, one of the associations.</p>

    <p>At an expert meeting in the Parliament on 13th May, in which FSFE also
    participated, industry associations BIKT and BITMi proposed changes to
    German copyright  and patent law. These proposals would also affect
    software patents which have already been granted. The first proposal is to
    add a  "protective shield" clause to German copyright law , introducing a
    <a href="http://l.fsfe.org/bikt-schutz">blanket ban</a> on the enforcement
    of patent claims with regard to software. The second proposal to be
    implemented in German patent law makes sure that the effect of patent
    claims shall not extend to works protected independently by copyright. Both
    proposals would prevent that patents on software can be enforced against
    software developers. The FSFE supports both proposals.</p>

    <blockquote><p>"Since the EU has decided to give away its power to make
      rules on the unitary patent, this step towards limiting patents on
      software is all the more important.", says Kirschner.</p></blockquote>

    <p>Background: The joint motion was introduced in German Parliament in
    April.  After a first hearing, the legal committee held an external expert
    meeting on May 13th for which FSFE published a <a
      href="http://www.bundestag.de/bundestag/ausschuesse17/a06/anhoerungen/archiv/47_Patentierung_von_Computerprogrammen/04_Stellungnahmen/Stellungnahme_Kirschner.pdf">written
      statement</a> and <a
      href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/mk/BundestagAnhoerung2013SoftwarepatenteNotizen">Matthias
      Kirschner's notes of his oral presentation</a>. During the hearing, a
    substantial majority of the external experts supported the join motion. 
    After recommendations from the Parliament's Legal Committee, backed up by
    the Committee for Economy and Technology, the Committee of Education,
    Research, and Engineering Results Assessment, as well as from the Committee
    for Culture and Media, the German Parliament in plenary session has
    approved unanimously the joint motion on the 7th June.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp></timestamp>

  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag content="Software Patents">Swpat</tag>
    <tag>de</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
