<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2023-06-06">
  <head>
	<title>First success in the EURA Slovakia case</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>

    <h1>First success in the EURA Slovakia case</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">A partial success in the case of Slovak company which was fined for not using of Microsoft products to fulfill of a legal obligation was maintained last week. The regional court in Banska Bystrica, Slovakia, ruled that the Slovak company should not pay eleven fines ammounting to 4.978,90 € which were imposed by Slovak Tax Authority. We have already informed about <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2012/news-20120509-02.en.html">the background of the case</a>.</p>

<p>In May 2012, legal team of the FSFE along with EISi, Slovak NGO, filed a complaint to the regional court. The complaint aimed against the Financial directory of Slovakia which imposed fines for submitting monthly VAT submissions in paper, instead of using electronic means. EURA Slovakia had to do this because it could not use mandatory electronic applications "eDane" and "eTax" which, at that time, ran only on the products of one software vendor - Microsoft.</p>

<p>According to the court ruling, these eleven fines were imposed ilegally, instead of that, the Slovak Tax Authority should have imposed only one. Apart from the decision on quantity of fines, the court should have also dealt with  legal validity of these fines.</p>

<p>"We are not satisfied with the decision of the court. The court should have dealt with our essential arguments about unlawfullness of the fines. There is no procedural legal reason precluding this. The case should be appealed." said Martin Husovec, lawyer of EISi.</p>

<p>The Slovak Supreme Court will probably soon deal with an essential societal question. Is it possible for the state to impose an electronic legal obligation on its citizens and limit its accessibility only to customers of one company? EISi and the FSFE is saying resounding "NO" to this practice.</p>

<p>"This kind of approach of any government should not be tolerated. We encourage everyone who might be damaged by this practice to follow EURA's example and seek for justice on courts." concluded Karsten Gerloff, president of the FSFE.</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp></timestamp>

  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>en</tag>
    <tag>open-standards</tag>
    <tag>sk</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
