<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2013-06-26">
  <head>
        <title>FSFE compliance workshop discovers GPL violation by FANTEC, Welte wins in court</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>FSFE compliance workshop discovers GPL violation by FANTEC, Welte wins in court</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">The <a
      href="http://www.ifross.org/sites/default/files/130618%20Urteil%20Fantec.pdf">Regional
      Court of Hamburg [Landgericht Hamburg] found FANTEC GmbH guilty of
      violating the GNU General Public License</a> in their media player FANTEC
    3DFHDL. In the case between Harald Welte versus FANTEC GmbH the court
    decided that FANTEC has to pay a penalty fee plus additional costs for the
    lawyers, and has to give out the exact information about their chain of
    distribution of the FANTEC 3DFHDL Media Player.</p>

    <p>FANTEC was using the netfilter/iptables software (firewalling software
    for GNU/Linux) in one of the FANTEC 3DFHDL firmwares offered online. They
    distributed the firmware without complete corresponding source code as
    required by the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2) that governs
    the netfilter/iptables software. Attempts to resolve this issue failed,
    after which Harald Welte, one of the copyright holders of iptables, decided
    to go to court. The court decided that FANTEC acted negligently: they would
    have had to ensure to distribute the software under the conditions of the
    GPLv2. The court made explicit that it is insufficient for FANTEC to rely
    on the assurance of license compliance of their suppliers. FANTEC itself is
    required to ascertain that no rights of third parties are violated.</p>

    <blockquote><p>"It is great to see that the court acknowledges the fact
      that vendors themselves are responsible for checking their products for
      GNU GPL compliance. Especially FANTEC, who already had earlier issues
      with GNU GPL compliance, should have known better. This was just
      laziness," says Harald Welte, founder of <a
        href="http://gpl-violations.org">gpl-violations.org</a> and plaintiff
      in the case.</p></blockquote>

    <p>The GNU GPL violation was found at a "Hacking for Compliance workshop"
    of the Free Software Foundation Europe in May 2012 in Berlin. Several
    volunteers helped checking different devices for GNU GPL compliance.
    Afterwards the results where forwarded to gpl-violations.org and their
    lawyers, who followed up on it.</p>

    <p>Although FANTEC denied at first, compliance engineers of FSFE and
    gpl-violations.org were able to prove that the software iptables version
    1.3.7 was on the device, even though FANTEC did not include the sources for
    this program in the provided source code. Besides they showed that the
    software was compiled on another date than the offered source code, proving
    that the source code offered by FANTEC was outdated.</p>

    <blockquote><p>"Together with our volunteers we will continue to ensure that users
    receive the freedom to use, study, share, and improve the software on their
    products. These are the basic principles of the Free Software community,
    and every company distributing the software has to comply with the
    respective licenses. Companies obviously see the benefit in building upon
    Free Software, and they should stick to these basic and simple rules." says
    Matthias Kirschner, FSFE's German coordinator and one of the organisers of
    the compliance workshop.</p></blockquote>

  <p>FSFE provides some <a href="/activities/ftf/useful-tips-for-vendors.html">
    easy steps</a> to follow to make your product GNU GPL compliant.</p>
    
  <p>The court decision (DE) is available on the <a
    href="http://www.ifross.org/sites/default/files/130618%20Urteil%20Fantec.pdf">IFROSS
    site (PDF)</a>.</p>

    <p>Other news related to GNU GPL violation cases: </p>
    <ul>
      <li>2011-11-10: "<a
        href="https://fsfe.org/news/2011/news-20111110-01.en.html">Court
        rejects AVM´s claims opposing third party modifications of GPL
        software"</a>.</li>
    </ul>

  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>compliance</tag>
    <tag>legal</tag>
    <tag>licenses</tag>
  </tags>
  <timestamp></timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
