<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2013-07-16">
  <head>
        <title>Open Letter on transparency to President of the European Parliament</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>Open Letter on transparency to President of the European Parliament</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">Free Software Foundation Europe and <a
    href="http://www.openrightsgroup.org/">Open Rights Group</a> have sent
    an <a href="/activities/os/transparency-letter">open letter</a> <a href="
    http://download.fsfe.org/letters/20130716.Letter.Schulz.pdf">[pdf]</a> to the
    President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz. Mr Schulz has <a
    href="http://epfsug.eu/wws/arc/epfsug/2013-07/msg00041/Letter_President_Schulz_Free_Software.pdf">recently
    been asked</a> [pdf] to produce a study on transparency within the
    Parliament. </p>

    <p> In their letter, the civil society groups are offering Mr
    Schulz their help in this effort. They are also suggesting a number
    of questions that should be considered in the report on
    transparency, such as
<ul>
  <li>As the Parliament is held to a standard of "utmost
  transparency", would it be obliged to make public the source code of
  the software it uses?</li>

  <li>How can the Parliament use Free Software and Open Standards to
  make sure that citizens have full and unfettered access to all
  documents produced by the Parliament?</li>

  <li>What can the Parliament do to make videos of its proceedings
  available to citizens without requiring them to install non-free
  software? </li>

  <li>Does the requirement for "utmost transparency" also cover the
  Parliament's procurement of software?</li>
</ul>
    </p>

    <blockquote><p>"We appreciate the Parliament's commitment to
    transparency," says Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's President. "It is
    essential for democracy in Europe that citizens have the fullest
    possible access to parliamentary proceedings, and to the tools
    which the Parliament uses to make the laws that govern us all."</p></blockquote>
<p>
Open Rights Group and FSFE look forward to assisting the European Parliament in the
preparation of the transparency study.
</p>
  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>EU</tag>
    <tag>EuropeanParliament</tag>
    <tag>Transparency</tag>
  </tags>
  <timestamp></timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
