<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2014-07-02">
  <head>
        <title>German Parliament elections: The parties' positions on Free Software</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
  <h1>German Parliament elections: The parties' positions on Free Software</h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">
  Today, the Free Software Foundation Europe publishes its
  Free Software related election questions for this fall's elections
  to the German parliament, which will take place on
  September 22. 
  All political parties have responded to the questions, which cover
  issues like users' control over their electronic devices, the
  release of publicly funded computer programs as Free Software, and
  software patents.
  </p>

  <p>
  From the responses, it's clear that most parties now know more about
  Free Software than they did in the past. Below is the translation -- <a href="/contribute/translators/translators.html">done by FSFE's volunteers</a> -- of FSFE's summary
  and an evaluation of the <strong><a
  href="/campaigns/askyourcandidates/201309-germany-bundestagswahl.html">complete
  answers</a></strong>. In addition, FSFE encourages Free
  Software activists to use these questions as an inspiration for
  their own questions to candidates on federal and local level.
  </p>

  <p>
  First, something pleasant: SPD, the Greens, the Pirate party, the
  Linke and the Free Voters want software where development was funded
  by the public administration to be published under a free
  licence. The SPD states that "publicly funded software should be
  available to the general public as far as possible". The Greens
  demand the publication of such programs as Free Software in their
  manifesto (see <a
  href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/WahlUndParteiprogrammeDeutschland">FSFE's
  overview on the election and party manifestos in Germany</a>
  (German)). In their reply, they justify this demand with benefits
  such as "bigger and more sustainable innovation potentials,
  broadening of competence in handling software, but also
  security-related advantages". They continually criticise the
  migration away from Free Software in the Foreign Office. The Pirates
  and the Left Party both advocate a general publication of all
  software and content funded by the state. The FDP does not directly
  address the question, but generally claims to "consider both
  proprietary and Free software" in public procurement.
  </p>


  <p>
  The CDU however points out "budget law restrictions" for the
  publication and advancement of Free Software by the public
  administration. In their answer, they refer to a paragraph in the
  Bundeshaushaltsordnung (BHO § 63 para. 2).  The federal government
  however states the following in its accompanying legal document to
  the <a
  href="http://www.cio.bund.de/DE/Architekturen-und-Standards/Migrationsleitfaden-und-Migrationshilfen/migrationsleitfaden_node.html">migration
  guidelines (German)</a>: This paragraph "does not constitute a
  limitation for the dissemination of software" (p. 41) and "in the
  practically most important case, the further development of GPL
  licences software, a public authority can share its own development
  portions to private parties without levy of licence fees"
  (p. 43). In contrast, these guidelines highlight a problem in the
  gratis distribution to private parties for development of new
  software or continuing development of non-copyleft software. It is
  worth noting that in its past eight years in government, the CDU has
  not improved the BHO law if they perceive it to be
  problematic. Furthermore, the CDU/CSU state that in every single
  case, it should be checked "if obvious modifications of the software
  would allow it to be used for illegal purposes" and if this was the
  case, the software should not be published.
  </p>

  <p>
  The <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1031">refusal to release a
  GNU/Linux version of the ElsterFormular tax software (German)</a>
  meets with a lack of understanding, regret and criticism among the
  parties. The FDP points to the platform independence of the upcoming
  version of Elsteronline, which will not need Java to run. Still,
  they regret that the Elsterformular is not available in a platform
  independent way. The Free Voters perceive the given platform
  dependency as incomprehensible in view of system security. The tying
  to a single operating system development company is unacceptable for
  the SPD and they want to engage to "make according software
  available for alternative operating systems as well". The Greens
  want to advocate the possibility to use the ElsterFormular for users
  of Free operating systems. The Left Party voices its criticsm: "The
  provision of the Elster-Formular solely for Microsoft Windows and
  the refusal to release the GNU-Linux and Mac OS X versions by the
  Bayerisches Landesamt für Steuern (Bavarian tax administration), which is in charge of the
  development, is not acceptable." The Pirates demand the publication
  of the software – even if it was of bad quality – and its
  documentation under a Free licence to allow others to further
  develop the software.
  </p>

  <p>
  All parties agree that public authorities should demand all rights
  (access to the source code, the right for further developments (also by third
  parties), the right to distribute the software to others) when
  contracting out software development. The FDP states: "This creates independence
  from the producer, strategic reliability and freedom of choice when selecting a
  service provider." SPD and the Greens mainly justify their demands from an IT
  security point of view. According to the Linke, the state "should
  ensure that it has discretion over how the software will be
  distributed, and use this discretion in the common interest". The
  CDU attaches "special importance to [...] the possibility of further
  development of the software from the beginning" in the future. The Pirates and the Greens point to the fact
  that governmental usage rights are a necessary condition to publish software
  of the public administration under a Free licence as demanded by the parties.
  The Free Voters state that they will consider fines for officials and
  employees who sign contracts without these usage rights.
  </p>

  <p>
  Asked about the control over mobile devices, the parties mainly focus on
  aspects of data protection. The SPD sees "challenges especially regarding the
  right of informational self-determination". The Greens, Linke, Pirates and SPD
  demand data protection-friendly technology as a basic adjustment ("Data
  protection by technology"), while CDU/CSU, FDP and the Free voters target a
  better education of citizens. However, the parties do not answer the question
  about the rights the users should have on the software on these devices – a
  question that for example is asked by FSFE's <a
   href="/campaigns/android/android.html">FreeYourAndroid.org campaign</a>.
  </p>

    <p>On the subject <a
    href="/campaigns/generalpurposecomputing/secure-boot-analysis.html">"Secure
    Boot"</a> all parties are in agreement: the <a
    href="/news/2012/news-20121120-01.html">White Paper of the federal
    government</a> contains important demands which they want to
    support and implement. "With the implementation of Secure Boot the
    owners of IT devices get limited in the possibility to entirely
    control contents and applications", writes the Left Party. The FDP
    wants to "assure that users can make an informed decision about
    their devices", and the CDU wants to pursue this issue on national
    and international level. In their detailed answer the Pirates
    write: "Systems which prevent the user from installing specific software
    are inacceptable on political and economical grounds. This inevitably
    leads to promotion of oligopolies or monopolies in the software
    market. But more important is the socio-political relevance of
    control over IT systems [....]". The Greens doubt how the federal
    government will implement the key issue paper "with the extensive
    ties to Microsoft services" and SPD demands an "initiative on
    European level [...] to let these targets not only be a political
    declaration of intention, but to really stick to them."</p>

    <p>Except for CDU and Free voters, all parties explicitly support
    the royalty-free licensing of standards. The Greens point to their
    demand in the <a
    href="http://www.bundestag.de/internetenquete/">Enquete Kommission
    "Internet und Digitale Gesellschaft" (EIDG, commission of inquiry
    in internet and digital society)</a> where they want to place the
    public administration under an obligation to bring forward
    interoperability and sustainability of their IT systems "to be
    independent from interests of individual market participants at
    the further development of the systems." Criticism of SAGA, the
    German guideline for IT standards in federal government
    organisations, comes from the Left Party and Pirates. The Left
    Party see in the specifications without restrictions and licence
    fees no automatism for increased implementation of Free
    Software. "On this, active political will and proactive acting of
    federal government is required", so the Linke. The Pirates
    criticise that ODF in SAGA is only a recommended format what
    results to the fact "that non-free software and closed formats can
    still be used in administrative practice." For this reason, they
    consider SAGA to be merely a "paper tiger".</p>

    <p>Unfortunately the CDU sees no problem in <a
    href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">advertisement on
    public administration's websites</a> for non-free software as long
    as such adverts serve usability. The other parties reject this
    kind of advertisements, and want to prevent them in future. The
    Greens refer in their answer to their request "Advertisement for
    proprietary software on websites of federal ministries and public
    administration" (printed matter 17/8951) in which they picked up
    on this issue, and to the following discussion of this subject in
    the IT planning council. The Free Voters offered their help for
    solutions on municipal level.</p>
  
    <p>FSFE's ongoing work against software patents shows effects: By
    now all parties on federal level agree that patenting of software
    should be limited effectively. To this they refer to the <a
    href="/news/2013/news-20130612-01.html">inter-fractional request titled
    "Secure competition and dynamic of innovation in software sector -
    limit patenting of computer programs effectively"</a>.</p>

  <p>
  The CDU/CSU is generally in favour of using "Serious Games",
  i.e. learning games with the primary goal of imparting knowledge in
  an entertaining way, in schools and universities and thinks about
  releasing those games under a Free licence. The FDP wants to get
  more children into programming and "ensure that newly acquired
  learning aids can be used platform independently". The Free Voters
  want to promote Free Software in the municipal sector. The Greens
  especially demand a consistent procurement practice for software
  funded by the public sector, continue to criticise regression like
  for example in the <a
  href="/news/2011/news-20110511-01.html">Foreign Office</a> and want
  to serve as a good example by releasing their own software
  ("betatext"). The Linke sees Free Software in the context of common
  property economics and thinks about ways of funding Free Software
  development, e.g. using parts of the broadcasting fees. The SPD
  wants to primarily promote Free Software in the administration. In
  the commission of enquiry on the internet and the digital society
  (EIDG) the party had demanded that the state should "provide
  subsidies for usability analysis and the improvement of user
  friendliness of selected projects".
  </p>

    <ul> 
      
      <li><a href="/campaigns/askyourcandidates/askyourcandidates.html"> More
       election interviews</a> done by Free Software Foundation Europe and <a
       href="/campaigns/btw09/btw09.html"> publications about the last Bundestag
       election</a>.</li>

      <li>References to Free Software in <a
       href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/WahlUndParteiprogrammeDeutschland">election
       and party manifestos in Germany (German)</a>.</li>

    </ul>


  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>askyourcandidates</tag>
    <tag>de</tag>
    <tag>bundestagswahl</tag>
    <tag>politicians</tag>
    <tag>public administration</tag>
  </tags>
  <timestamp></timestamp>
  <translator>Martin Gollowitzer</translator>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
