<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE - World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p class="postit">
      The World Summit on the Information Society has passed and has been
      followed up by the
      <a href="/activities/policy/igf/igf.html">Internet Governance Forum</a>. The pages
      here are kept for archiving purposes.
    </p>

<center>
<h1>World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</h1>
</center>

<p>The World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) was a two-summit
UN conference organised by the ITU at which important cornerstones for
the information and knowledge society should be laid. After the
summits in Geneva and Tunis, the WSIS is now in its implementation phase.</p>

<p>FSFE has been participating for many years along with other civil
societies to make sure that principles of freedom, human rights,
sharing of knowledge and access to information will be upheld.</p>

<h3>Followup-Activities</h3>

<ul>

<li><a href="/activities/policy/igf/">Internet Governance Forum (IGF)</a><br />
One of the most controversial undertakings of the second phase of the
WSIS was the <a href="/activities/policy/igf/wgig.html">UN WGIG</a>. Unable to
discuss and find consensus on substantive issues, in particular the
issues around monopolisation of knowledge and Free Software, the
second summit in Tunisia agreed to create an international discussion
forum on all issues internet related, the Internet Governance Forum (IGF).</li>

</ul>


<h3>Documents</h3>

<ul> 

<li><a href="/activities/wsis/wsis-and-software.html">WSIS and the Software Challenge</a>
<ul>Article by Georg Greve about the role of Free Software in the digital world and FSFE's involvement in the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li>Statement: <a href="/activities/wipo/statement-20050721.en.html">FSFE statement</a> on behalf of the <a href="/activities/wsis/">WSIS</a> <a href="http://www.wsis-pct.org">Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks (PCT) Working Group</a> of Civil Society at the third <a href="http://www.wipo.int/meetings/en/details.jsp?meeting_id=8487" target="_blank">Inter-Sessional, Inter-Governmental Meeting (IIM) on a Development Agenda</a>, 21 July 2005</li><br />

<li>Towards a <a href="/documents/wiwo.html">"World Intellectual Wealth
Organisation"</a>. <ul>Supporting the Geneva Decleration.</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="/documents/iprip.html">On "Intellectual Property" and
Indigenous Peoples</a><ul> Essay by <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg
Greve</a> about questions raised for Indigenous Peoples by the
"intellectual property" ideology.</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="issues.html">Fighting intellectual poverty</a><br /> (Who
owns and controls the information societies?)<ul>Article by <a
href="/about/people/greve/">Georg Greve</a> for a publication of the <a
href="http://www.boell.de">Heinrich Böll Foundation</a> on the World
Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="cs-benchmarks.html">CS Essential Benchmarks for
WSIS</a><ul>Civil Society essential benchmarks (previously
non-negotiables) for the World Summit on the Information Society
(WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="fs.html">Free Software and WSIS</a><ul>Civil Society
reference paper on Free Software and its impact on the World Summit on
the Information Society (WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="ps-20030923.html">Civil Society Statement for WSIS
Plenary (Geneva, September 23rd 2003)</a><ul>Georg C. F. Greve on behalf of
Patents, Copyright, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group</ul></li><br />

</ul>


<h3>Debriefings</h3>

<ul>

<li><a href="debriefing-geneva.html">Debriefing for the Summit in
Geneva</a> (Geneva, December 10-12 2003)<br /> 
<ul>by <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a>, president of the 
FSF Europe, who took part as co-coordinator of the Civil Society
working group on Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks (PCT), chair of
European Caucus and Civil Society representative of German CS
coordination circle in the German governmental delegation.</ul>
</li><br />

<li><a href="debriefing-paris.html">Debriefing for the intersessional meeting</a> (Paris, July 15-18 2003)<br />
<ul>by <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a>, president of the 
FSF Europe, who attended this meeting as the representative of the WSIS coordination
circle of the German civil society as part of the German governmental delegation.</ul>
</li><br />

<li><em>Past Event: <a href="event-03-12-10.html">"Free Software, Free Society"</a></em><br />
<em>(December 10th, 2003, 17:00 - 20:00)</em><ul>
Event of the Patents, Copyright, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group: Listen
to and meet leading global experts on what is an essential building
block for an empowering, sustainable and inclusive information
society.
</ul></li><br />

</ul>

<h3>Mailing Lists</h3>
<ul>

 <li><a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/wsis-euc">Civil Societies WSIS European Caucus Coordination List</a>
<ul>
Coordination list of the European Civil Societies Caucus for the
World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).<br />
Open to all civil societies/people interested in creating and
maintaining an interface with the European governments/governance and specifically the EU that will
allow information exchange and better cooperation.
</ul>
</li>
 <li><a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/wsis-pct">Civil Societies WSIS Patents, Copyright and Trademarks (PCT) Working Group Coordination List</a>
<ul>
Coordination list for civil societies involved/interested in the World
Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) process.<br />
Open to all civil societies/people interested in working on issues related
to the questions around Patents, Copyright and Trademarks (PCTs).
</ul>
</li>


</ul>

<h3>More Information</h3>

<ul>

<li><a href="http://www.wsis.org">Official WSIS homepage</a></li><br />

<li><a href="http://www.wsis-cs.org/caucuses.html">Civil Society Caucuses, working groups and coordination spaces</a></li><br />

<li>General information by other civil societies:
<ul>
 <a href="http://www.worldsummit2003.de">Worldsummit 2003</a><br />
 <a href="http://www.wsis-cs.org">WSIS Civil Society Meeting Point</a><br />
 <a href="http://www.prepcom.net">Prepcom</a><br />
</ul>
</li><br />

<li><a href="http://www.wsis-pct.org">Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks Working Group web page</a><ul></ul></li><br />

</ul>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
