<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <html newsdate="2013-02-21">
  <head> <title>Thank you for celebrating #ilovefs the whole day without
      borders</title> </head>
  
  <body>

  <h1>Thank you for celebrating #ilovefs the whole day without borders</h1>
  
  <p newsteaser="yes">Our #ilovefs-campaign was granted around the globe and
  people were celebrating February 14th as the "I love Free Software" Day.
  Thank you very much for participating and showing your support for Free
  Software on this day - we were very excited about your creativity and
  participiation. And all these love declarations did not went out specifically
  to us but to the developers behind every Free Software product and their
  community. As a lot of you dedicated your love to specific programs that you
  enjoy so much, these developers will have read your love declaration, too.
  And for sure, they were just excited as we are. Here are just a few examples
  and highlights of your love declarations:</p>

  <h2>Tweets and dents</h2>

  <ul>
  <li>@mcb3k: Every day I use software that makes my life easier and more enjoyable. The best part is that I can share it with people! That's why #ilovefs</li>
  <li>@antolieztsu: Gracias a todos los desarrolladores y comunidad por darnos la oportunidad y enseñarnos que es posible ser libres, todos juntos #ilovefs [Translation: Thanks to all developers and community to give us the opportunity and to show us that it is possible to be free, all together #ilovefs]</li>
  <li>@CorporationMix: Éste #14defebrero declara tu amor al Software Libre. Recuerda que el SL es tuyo y nunca dejará de serlo #ilovefs [Translation: This February 14th declare your love for Free Software. Remind yourself that FS is yours and will never stop to be yours. #ilovefs]</li>
  <li>@HoppFrosch: Free software makes the (digital) world safer and more stable. It supports and boosts economy while it saves money &amp; creates jobs. #ilovefs</li>
  <li>@chorse: @Kirschner Thank you a lot for organizing today's event in the Unperfekthaus! I hope we have established a new tradition. #ilovefs !fsfe</li>
  </ul>

  <h2>Blogs:</h2> 

  <ul>
  <li><a href="http://pagekite.net/2012-02-14/We_Love_Free_Software_Anyway">Pagekit: We love Free Software</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/02/14/why-i-love-free-software/">Karsten: Why I love Free Software </a></li>
  <li><a href="http://blog.padowi.se/2012/02/14/iheartfs/">For editors: i&lt;3fs Patrik &lt;3 FS == true</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/myriam/2012/02/great-students-great-work-done/">Myriam Great students, great work done!</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://paradigmagnus.wordpress.com/2012/02/14/heute-ist-i-love-free-software-day-warum-nur-heute/">Thorsten Gross Heute ist “I love Free Software”-Day – warum nur heute?</a>  [...] Ach, ich liebe freie Software einfach. Und zwar jeden Tag!</li>
  <li><a href="http://gruebelkabinett.blogspot.com/2012/02/eine-kleine-liebeserklarung-freie.html">Grübelkabinett: Eine kleine Liebeserklärung an freie Software</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://oskar.twoday.net/stories/64975345/">Oskar Welzl: #ilovefs - ich hab (fast) alles gemacht</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/massimo/2012/02/14/io-%E2%99%A5-il-software-libero-2/">Massimo: Io ♥ il Software Libero</a></li>
  </ul>

  <h2>News coverage</h2>
  <ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.heise.de/open/meldung/Heute-ist-I-Love-Free-Software-Day-1433733.html">Heise: Heute ist "I Love Free Software Day"</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Today-is-I-Love-Free-Software-Day-1433939.html">H-online Today is "I Love Free Software Day"</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/249928">PCworld: Six Ways to Show Your Love for Free Software Today</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.pro-linux.de/news/1/18032/i-love-free-software-day.html">Prolinux »I Love Free Software Day«</a></li>
  </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$Author: rolf_camps $</timestamp>

  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>ilovefs</tag>
    
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
