<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-11-29">
<head>
 <title>7 days left for the PDF readers fundraising campaign, last chance to donate!</title>
</head>
<body>
 <h1>7 days left for the PDF readers fundraising campaign, last chance to donate!</h1>
 
<p newsteaser="yes" id="introduction">7 days until the fundraising is over! Once again, thanks to everyone who has donated and is helping us to reach our 
goal. Yet, we need a last "push": we have reached 82% so we need 188€ more. If you still 
have not donated, <a href="http://www.ulule.com/pdfreaders/"> please do it!</a>. With only a small contribution (the average donation amount is 23€) 
you will help us to achieve our goal.</p>

<p>Do you want to get more involved while we are enhancing the PDF Readers campaign website?</p>

<ul><li>Spread the word: you do not need more than 5 minutes 
to explain your family, your friends and all your contacts about this campaign and 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.en.html">the Petition For The Removal Of Proprietary Software Advertising On Public Websites</a>.</li>
<li> <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/follow-up.en.html">Help to report bugs</a>: you do not need a lot of time to help us to track and report 
bugs. And you do not need to be tracking bugs for days. Any new contribution is 
important, so if you are surfing in any public website and you find a bug, <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.en.html"> please report it!</a></li>
<li> Do you know any free PDF reader which is not in <a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">our list?</a> Tell us!</li>
</ul>

<p>And if you can code and want to help us to enhance our website or you just have a great 
idea about how to improve this campaign, please contact us!</p>

<p>Last but not least, remember that we advise you to block JavaScript before you enter the donation website.</p>
</body>
     <tags>
     <tag>front-page</tag>    
      <tag>en</tag>
      <tag>PDFreaders</tag>
      <tag>Fundraising</tag> 
 </tags>
</html>

