<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2012-02-28">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE launches Campaign For A Free Android System</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>

    <h1>FSFE launches Campaign For A Free Android System</h1>
	
	<p newsteaser="yes">
	Smartphones have a privacy problem.
	This is one of the reasons why the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)
	is launching its <a href="/campaigns/android/android.html">"Free Your Android!" campaign</a> today.
	</p>
	
	<p>
	"Users deserve to have full control over their mobile devices",
	says Torsten Grote, FSFE member and initiator of the campaign.
	"If your phone runs Free Software, you're in charge.
	If it runs proprietary software, you're handing control of your digital life to manufacturers and app developers."
	</p>

  <p> The lack of software freedom on smartphones and tablets is becoming
  increasingly problematic.  Many apps <a
    href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carrier_IQ">spy on their users without
    their knowledge</a> (Carrier IQ) and <a
    href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2012/feb/15/apple-iphone-address-book-privacy">transmit
    personal data such as address books on the iPhone</a>.  Other devices are
  completely locked down, prevent users from uninstalling certain apps, or just
  do not receive updates.
  "Free Your Android!" promotes versions of Android optimised for user control,
  and an <a href="http://f-droid.org/">alternative market that only provides
    free-as-in-freedom apps</a>.  It also invites people to contribute to
  various initiatives and to identify essential apps that still have no free
  alternatives.
  </p>

  <p> "The Android operating system may be mostly free, but many applications
  are not", says Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's President.  "Mobile devices contain
  lots of data about our lives. With this campaign, we will not only build
  awareness of how much privacy and freedom matter for smartphones and tablets,
  we will also give users the means to make their own devices better." </p>

	<p>
	The Free Your Android campaign encourages people to get in touch with developers of useful proprietary apps.
	Often these apps are distributed free of charge, but not under a free licence.
	Responses and objections by developers are collected and <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Android">analysed in a wiki</a>.
	</p>

	<p>
	Currently the FSF, and the German privacy organisation FoeBuD e.V.
	are working with FSFE in an effort to improve the conditions for software freedom
	and privacy in the mobile space.
	FSFE is looking forward to other organisations joining the campaign.
	</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$Author: rolf_camps $</timestamp>

  <tags>
    <tag>en</tag>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
