<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-09-07">
<head>
 <title>Unitary patent threatens innovation in Europe</title>
</head>
<body>
 <h1>Unitary patent threatens innovation in Europe</h1>
 
<p newsteaser="yes" id="introduction">
Will lawsuits like Apple vs Samsung soon take place in Europe? The
European Parliament is about to set the future course for Europe's
patent system.  On September 17th and 18th, the European Parliament's
Legal Affairs committee will discuss a proposal for a EU-wide patent.
From now until September 18th, FSFE will continuously provide
updates and analysis on the unitary patent on our <a href="http://fsfe.org/">website</a>.
</p>

<p>
This proposal has faced massive criticism from different sides. In its
current form, it will mean:

  <ul>
    <li>giving up political control over Europe's innovation policy</li>

    <li>endangering due process for those involved in patent
    litigation</li>

    <li>cementing the EPO's dangerous practice of awarding patents on
    software</li>

  </ul>
</p>
<p>
The European Court of Justice warned in March 2011 that the previous patent
proposal was <a
href="http://curia.europa.eu/jcms/upload/docs/application/pdf/2011-03/cp110017en.pdf">incompatible
with EU laws</a> (pdf).
</p>
<p>
In December 2011, the European Council agreed to change the proposal. It was a
change for the worse: By removing three key articles, the Council greatly
reduced the role of the European Court of Justice in the future unitary patent
system. The rapporteur for the Parliament's Legal Affairs committee, Bernhard Rapkay,
<a href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?pubRef=-//EP//TEXT+IM-PRESS+20120709IPR48484+0+DOC+XML+V0//EN">
warned</a> that this sudden modification was likely to breach EU law. [Paragraph
updated to reflect comments made by rapporteur of Legal Affairs Committee.]
</p>
<p>
In order to preserve and enhance Europe's capacity for innovation,
FSFE demands that:

  <ul> 

     <li><em>Political control over the patent system:</em>
       Europe's patent system must be placed under the Parliament's
       supervision. The patent system is an important tool of
       innovation policy. The European Parliament must not delegate
       its responsibilities to an organisation that is entirely
       outside the EU's control.</li>

     <li><em>Due process:</em> The patent system has to guarantee due process
      for all, with proper checks and balances. Rather than being left
      at the mercy of an unsupervised special patent court, those
      involved in patent litigation must have recourse to national
      courts and ultimately to the European Court of Justice.</li>

     <li><em>No patents on software:</em> Parliament needs to
    effectively ensure that computer programs are excluded from
    patentability. MEPs must make it clear that a computer program
    cannot be patented just because it runs on generic data processing
    hardware.</li>
  
  </ul>
</p>

<p>
	<strong>Update:</strong> The Legal Affairs committee decided to postpone the discussion on the
	unitary patent proposal. It will most likely take place later in the fall
	of 2012. FSFE will continue to provide updates and analysis as further 
	information becomes available.
</p>

<p>
	-> <a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/swpat/current/unitary-patent.html">
	Find out more about the unitary patent</a>
</p>

</body>
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>eu</tag>
  <tag>swpat</tag>
  <tag>Patents</tag>
 </tags>
</html>

