<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-02-02">
  <head>
    <title>Legal news: Debates on legitimity of GPL enforcement practices</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>Free Software legal news</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">While the editors of this digest were very busy with FOSDEM last week, which for the first time featured <a href="http://fosdem.org/2012/schedule/track/legal_issues_devroom">a legal track</a>; an interesting debate was raised on the legitimity and effectivity of GPL enforcement practices against violators of the license. On patent litigation, there were discussions on the opinion of the International Trade Commission on Barnes &#38; Nobles patent defense against Microsoft's Android litigations.</p>

<p><strong>Quick Navigation</strong>: 
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#GPL">GPL enforcement</a> 
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#Patents">Patents warfare</a>
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#Legal_awareness">Free Software legal awareness</a></p>

<h2 id="GPL">A decline of the GPL?</h2>
<p>The GNU GPL has always been a flagship of the Free Software movement, not only because it is the most used license, but also because its copyleft legal provisions are reputed to protect the commons against free-riders. However, more than twenty years after the GPLv2 was published, the GPLv3 is struggling to gain momentum and being blamed for a "<a href="http://fosdem.org/2012/schedule/event/the_decline_of_the_gpl" title="Richard Fontana's talk at FOSDEM">decline</a>" of the GPL and a <a href="http://ostatic.com/blog/the-top-licenses-on-github" title="MIT most popular license on GitHub">rise of non-copyleft licenses</a>. A project to replace BusyBox with a non-GPL alternative, and the on-going "purge" of GPL packages by Apple and FreeBSD are two signs of this trend.</p>
<h3>Controversy around BusyBox replacement</h3>
<p>A <a href="http://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/10437.html">project to write a non-GPL BusyBox</a>, with the participation of former BusyBox developers, has spanned debates and controversy over the use of BusyBox's copyrights in GPL enforcement actions against corporations violating the license.</p>
<ul>
    <li><a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/478308/">A tempest in a toybox</a>, LWN.net
</li>
    <li><a href="http://sfconservancy.org/blog/2012/feb/01/gpl-enforcement/">Some Thoughts on Conservancy's GPL Enforcement</a>, Bradley Kuhn
</li>
</ul>
<h3>Apple's and FreeBSD's great GPL purge</h3>
<p>Apple is progressively getting rid of most of GPL packages in its Mac OS X operating system which shares some common base with FreeBSD. Apple's stance on GPLv3 has lead it to reject updates of Samba, Bash, and other GPLv3 projects; and forced it to rewrite non-GPL replacements. But is it sustainable in the long term?</p>
<ul>
    <li><a href="http://meta.ath0.com/2012/02/05/apples-great-gpl-purge/">Apple’s great GPL purge</a>, by mathew
</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="Patents">Patents warfare</h2>


<h3>Barnes &#38; Nobles v. Microsoft</h3>
<p>The patent infringement case is taking a new turn after Jeff Hsu, a staff attorney at the U.S. International Trade Commission, said he didn't think there was any violation of Microsoft patents. According to patent attorney Patrick Patras, "The staff attorney is really acting as an independent third party in the litigation whose job is to protect the public interest."</p>
<ul>
        <li><a href="http://www.groklaw.net/article.php?story=20120207110012776">Some Really Good News for Barnes &#38; Noble; and Microsoft Withdraws Another Patent</a>, PJ, Groklaw</li>
        <li><a href="http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/news/2012/02/the-three-patents-microsoft-is-hammering-the-nook-withand-why-they-may-be-invalid.ars">The three patents Microsoft is hammering the Nook with—and why they may be invalid</a>, Jon Brodkin, Ars Technica</li>
</ul>


<h2 id="Legal_awareness">Free Software legal awareness</h2>
<h3>Terminology of copyleft</h3>
<p>Copyleft has always been a very important parameter in a project's governance. The choice of a license can have deep implications over a community's development and culture. But it is equally important how we communicate over those choices. Thus, Luis Villa explained why he decided to use the term "hereditary" to describe copyleft effects to mainstream audiences.</p>
<ul>
    <li><a href="http://tieguy.org/blog/2012/02/02/the-license-term-smorgasbord-copyleft-share-alike-reciprocal-viral-or-hereditary/">The license term smorgasbord: copyleft, share-alike, reciprocal, viral, or hereditary?</a>, Luis Villa
</li>
</ul>

<h2>About the Free Software Legal News</h2>
 
  	<h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  
    <ul>

    
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/news/legal-news.html">Legal News Archive</a></h3>
        <p>Links related to Free Software news are collected, edited and published weekly to help keep track of the important legal issues. We welcome submissions of links by email to legal-news at fsfeurope dot org</p>
      </li>
    
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/ftf/ftf.html">FSFE Legal - The Freedom Task Force</a></h3>
        <p>
FSFE is committed to helping individuals, projects, businesses and government agencies find Free Software legal information, experts and support.  Our mission is to spread knowledge, solve problems and encourage the long-term growth of Free Software. 
        </p>
      </li>
</ul>


</body>

<timestamp>$Date: 2012-02-02 16:28:44 +0100 (Thu, 02 Feb 2012) $ $Author: husovec $</timestamp>

 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>legal-news</tag>
  <tag>Free Software</tag>
 </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

