<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-06-07">
<head>
 <title>June 9: Help deliver final blow to ACTA</title>
</head>
<body>
 <h1>June 9: Help deliver final blow to ACTA</h1>
 <p newsteaser="yes" id="introduction">
  On Saturday June 9, activists across Europe are taking to the streets to
  protest against the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA). They
  demand that the  European Parliament should finally reject this
  controversial treaty, which would greatly harm citizens' rights. The
  Parliament will hold a plenary vote on ACTA in July.
 </p>
 <p>
  A wave of popular protests in February showed policymakers that endorsing
  the treaty was risky. Several EU member states are wavering in their
  support. The Dutch parliament has even voted to prevent the government
  from signing the treaty. However, ACTA is not dead  yet. Those in favour
  of a free information society need to keep up the pressure until the
  European Parliament finally rejects the treaty. 
 </p>
 <p>
  Please join a protest event near you
  (<a href="http://goo.gl/maps/dsjW">Google map of protests</a>) on June 9,
  and help us keep the information society free.
 </p>
 <p>
 	ACTA is merely one building block in a wall that is intended to lock us
 	in and take away our freedom to share and create knowledge. Other
 	building blocks of this wall are the recently revived IPRED2 Directive in
 	the EU (<a href="http://ec.europa.eu/governance/impact/planned_ia/docs/2011_markt_006_review_enforcement_directive_ipr_en.pdf">PDF of the European Commission's roadmap)</a>)
 	and the <a href="http://www.publicknowledge.org/blog/whats-actually-tpp">Transpacific Partnership Agreement</a>
 	(TPP).
 </p>
</body>
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>ACTA</tag>
 </tags>
</html>
