<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-02-02">
  <head>
    <title>Legal news: Photograph copyright case could have effects on software developers</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>Free Software legal news</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Read about copyright originality in the EU, publication of Library License, European Commissions proposal to reform the old data protection rules, iPad litigations and more.</p>

<p><strong>Quick Navigation</strong>: &#8250;&#160;<a href="#Copyright">Copyright</a> 
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#Privacy">Privacy</a>
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#Open_Standards">Open Standards and antitrust</a>
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#Patents">Patents and designs</a>
&#8250;&#160;<a href="#FreeOS">Free Operating Systems</a></p>

<h2 id="Copyright">Copyright</h2>

<h3>Copyright originality in the EU</h3>
<p>The  debate about copyright originality threshold is growing within European jurisdictions due to an expected decision of the Court of Justice of the EU (SAS v. World Programming). In January, the `Red Bus' case in the UK, and a decision on newspapers' status in Slovakia have shed light upon what exactly is copyrightable.</p>

<p>Indeed, a case in the UK over infringement of copyright in a photograph showing an iconic London red bus with Big Ben and Westminster as a black and white background, is raising arguments over originality and copyright doctrine about intent that could have important effects on software developers, as Andrew Katz explained.</p>
<ul>
        <li><a href="http://blogs.computerworlduk.com/commons-law/2012/01/copyright-case-spells-trouble-for-developers/index.htm">Copyright case spells trouble for developers</a>, Andrew Katz</li>
        <li>See also, <a
href="http://ipkitten.blogspot.com/2012/01/wheels-on-birss.html">Wheels on the birss</a> by IPKat</li>
        <li><a href="http://the1709blog.blogspot.com/2012/02/protection-of-photographs-in-french.html">an article about French copyright of photographs</a>at the 1709blog</li>
</ul>

<p>Another case in Slovakia answered the issue of originality in newspapers articles negatively.</p>
<ul><li> <a
href="http://kluwercopyrightblog.com/2012/01/24/newspaper-articles-not-creative-enough-an-issue-for-the-cjeu/">Newspaper articles not creative enough. An issue for the CJEU?</a> by FSFE's intern Martin Husovec at Kluwer Copyright Blog</li>
<li>See also, a <a
href="http://husovec.blogspot.com/2011/12/european-originality-doctrine-another.html"> summary of recent CJEU cases by Martin Husovec</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Library License</h3>
<p>The Library License projects to give a way for publishers to grant non-commercial lending rights to libraries through a licensing framework. “Explicitly modeled on Creative Commons licenses with a similar eye towards simplicity and granularity,” Library Licenses could be constructed in several different ways. The most simple example is a straightforward grant, where libraries could acquire and then lend ebooks after they had been on the market for a period of time ranging from instantaneous to some number of years. <i>See</i> <a href="http://dp.la/2012/01/12/press-library-license-a-suggested-framework/"> article by Kenny Whitebloom</a> and <a href="http://librarylicense.org/">the project's website</a>.</p>

<!--<h3>Pirates lose final appeal</h3>-->
<!--<p>Three founders of The Pirate Bay have lost an appeal against a conviction for illegally sharing copyrighted content. <i>See</i> <a href="http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-11847200"> article at BBC</a> and <a href="http://the1709blog.blogspot.com/2012/02/pirates-lose-final-appeal.html">article at 1709blog</a>;</p>-->


<h2 id="Privacy">Privacy</h2>

<h3>Commission proposes a comprehensive reform of the data protection rules</h3>
<p>The  European Commission has proposed a comprehensive reform of the  EU's  1995 data protection rules to strengthen online privacy rights and   boost Europe's digital economy. A  single law will do away with the  current fragmentation and costly  administrative burdens, leading to  savings for businesses of around €2.3  billion a year. The initiative  will help reinforce consumer confidence  in online services, providing a  much needed boost to growth, jobs and  innovation in Europe. <i>See</i> <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/justice/newsroom/data-protection/news/120125_en.htm"> website of European Commission</a>.</p>

<h3>Enter do-not-track (DNT) standard. </h3>
<p>Neelie  Kroes hopes that a standard known as “do not track” (DNT) will have a  big role to play for the future of online privacy. Do Not Track is a  technology and policy proposal that enables users to  opt out of  tracking by websites they do not visit, including analytics  services,  advertising networks, and social platforms. <i>See</i> <a href="http://blogs.ec.europa.eu/neelie-kroes/donottrack/">Neelie Kroes' blog</a> and <a href="http://donottrack.us/">the website of the project</a>;</p>

<h3>Google changes its privacy policy</h3>
<p>With the new policy in place, Google is taking a more proactive approach  towards getting “more relevant results.”   With that blanket policy, users will be treated as a single user across all Google services. <i>See</i> <a href="http://thenextweb.com/google/2012/01/24/google-is-changing-its-privacy-policies-with-one-document-to-rule-them-all/"> article at The Next Web</a>.</p>


<h2 id="Open_Standards">Open Standards and antitrust</h2>

<h3>iBooks Author EULA restrictions invite antitrust concerns</h3>
<p>Apple's end user license agreement for the iBooks Author app has generated extensive controversy among authors and publishers. Namely, the agreement restricts paid  distribution of "works" created with the software to the iBookstore only. <i>See</i><a href="http://arstechnica.com/apple/news/2012/01/lawyer-ibooks-author-eula-restrictions-could-raise-antitrust-concerns.ars"> article at Ars Technica</a>, <a href="http://www.zdnet.com/blog/bott/apples-mind-bogglingly-greedy-and-evil-license-agreement/4360"> article by Ed Bott</a> and <a href="http://www.zdnet.com/blog/bott/how-apple-is-sabotaging-an-open-standard-for-digital-books/4378?tag=nl.e539"> second article by Ed Bott</a>.</p>

<h2 id="Patents">Patents and designs</h2>
<h3>Intel to Buy Patents and Next Generation Video Codec Software From RealNetworks</h3>
<p>RealNetworks, Inc. announced that it has signed an agreement to sell a significant number of its patents and its next generation video codec software to Intel Corporation for a purchase price of $120 million. Under terms of the sale, RealNetworks retains certain rights to continue to use the patents in current and future products. <i>See</i> <a href="http://www.realnetworks.com/pressroom/releases/2012/intel-to-buy-patents-and-next-generation-video-codec-software-from-realnetworks.aspx">RealNetworks' press release</a>.</p>

<h3>Opinion: Copyright, Trademark and Patents are Theft</h3>
<p>“To be clear, I’m a firm defender of actual property rights, even to an absolutist point. That’s exactly why I oppose the charade known as "intellectual property.” <i>See</i> <a href="http://www.oudaily.com/news/2012/jan/31/column-intellectual-property-theft/"> article at OUDaily</a>;</p>

<h3>iPad litigation</h3>
<p>Court of Appeal of the Hague rejected Apple's appeal, finding no infringement of their Community Design covering the iPad. On the other hand, Apple just but won part of the case in Germany where Düsseldorf Higher Regional Court upheld a preliminary  injunction against the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 on the basis on basis of unfair competition law <i>See</i> <a
href="http://class-99.blogspot.com/2012/01/apple-loses-dutch-ipad-appeal-to.html"> article at Class 99 about Dutch litigation</a> and <a
href="http://www.olg-duesseldorf.nrw.de/presse/05presseAktuell/2012-01-30_PM_Verkaufsverbot_von_zwei_Samsung-Tablet-Modellen/index.php"> press release of Dusseldorf court (DE)</a>.</p>


<h2 id="FreeOS">Free operating systems</h2>

<h3>HP to release webOS as Free Software by Fall 2012</h3>
<p>HP began executing its plan to deliver an open webOS by committing to a schedule for making the platform’s source code available under a Free Software license. The company aims to complete this milestone in its entirety by September. <i>See</i> <a href="http://www8.hp.com/us/en/hp-news/press-release.html?id=1164460">HP's press release</a>.</p>

<h2>About the Free Software Legal News</h2>
 
  	<h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  
    <ul>

    
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/news/legal-news.html">Legal News Archive</a></h3>
        <p>Links related to Free Software news are collected, edited and published weekly to help keep track of the important legal issues. We welcome submissions of links by email to legal-news at fsfeurope dot org</p>
      </li>
    
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">FSFE Legal - The Freedom Task Force</a></h3>
        <p>
FSFE is committed to helping individuals, projects, businesses and government agencies find Free Software legal information, experts and support.  Our mission is to spread knowledge, solve problems and encourage the long-term growth of Free Software. 
        </p>
      </li>
</ul>


</body>

<timestamp>$Date: 2012-02-02 16:28:44 +0100 (Thu, 02 Feb 2012) $ $Author: husovec $</timestamp>

 <tags>
  <tag>legal-news</tag>
  <tag>Free Software</tag>
 </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

