<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2013-09-21">
<head>
	<title>Twenty-one organisations ask Italian Data Protection Authority to publish readable documents.</title>
</head>


<body>
 <h1>Twenty-one organisations ask Italian Data Protection Authority to publish readable documents</h1>

<!--<p newsteaser="yes">
La FSFE, insieme ad altre venti organizzazioni italiane, ha scritto una lettera al Presidente dell'Autorità Garante per la protezione dei Dati Personali, Antonello Soro, per segnalare un problema di leggibilità di un documento presente sul sito dell'Autorità. Tale documento, gravato da particolari script che lo rendono illeggibile con Software Libero, obbliga il cittadino ad utilizzare uno specifico programma proprietario. Si tratta di un ostacolo alla libertà di scelta da parte degli utenti, e causa un grave episodio di distorsione del mercato.</p>-->
<p newsteaser="yes">
The Free Software Foundation Europe and twenty Italian civil society
organisations wrote
a <a href="http://download.fsfe.org/advocacy/pdfreaders/pdfreaders-letter-italy.pdf">letter</a>
to the President of the Authority for the Protection of Personal Data,
asking the agency to ensure that all documents published on its
website can be read and used with Free Software programs.
</p>
<p>
On its website, the agency had offered a PDF document to report data
breaches. Although most versions of the PDF file format
are <a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/os/os.en.html">Open
    Standards</a>, this form could only be filled in using a
particular proprietary PDF reader. 
</p>
<p>
"This is an obstacle to the users' freedom," says Alessandro Polvani,
who coordinates FSFE's activities in Italy. "Public authorities need
to make sure that their documents are accessible to everyone. No
citizen should have to use proprietary software in order to talk to
the public sector."
</p>

<h2>Beyond the Pdfreaders campaign</h2> 

<!--<p>La campagna <a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders</a> ha dato in questi anni risultati eccellenti. L'Italia in particolar modo si è distinta per l'elevato numero di istituzioni segnalate e di bug risolti, ma la campagna PDFreaders Italiana non si arresta. I fellow Italiani hanno scovato sul sito del Garante per la Protezione dei Dati Personali un <a href="http://www.garanteprivacy.it/garante/document?ID=1915835">documento PDF</a> illeggibile per chi utilizza Software Libero nel quale viene fatta esplicita pubblicità all'uso di un lettore PDF proprietario. La FSFE ha così deciso di scrivere una <a href="http://download.fsfe.org/advocacy/pdfreaders/pdfreaders-letter-italy.pdf">lettera</a> (LINK alla lettera) al presidente dell'autorità Garante per la Protezione dei Dati Personali per fare notare che questo comportamente non è neutrale nei confronti del mercato del software e che alcuni dei documenti pubblicati sul sito istituzionale sono illeggibili per tutti coloro che utilizzano Software Libero.</p>-->
<p>
In FSFE's <a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders</a> campaign,
volunteers across Europe work to have advertisements for proprietary
PDF readers removed from public-sector websites. People in Italy are
among the most active participants in the campaign. They have so far
reported 488 advertisements, of which almost half (49%) were fixed in
response to letters by citizens.
.</p>

<h3>Contacts</h3>

Alessandro Polvani<br/>
Italy deputy coordinator<br/>
alessandro.polvani@fsfe.org<br/>

<p>If you wish to receive further updates, subscribe to our press release mailing list at <a href="http://fsfe.org/press">http://fsfe.org/press</a>.</p>
</body>

 <tags>
  <tag>pdfreaders</tag>
  <tag>italy</tag>
 </tags>
</html>



