<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2012-04-12">

<head>
	<title>Is vendor lock-in costing Helsinki 3.4 million Euros per year?</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Is vendor lock-in costing Helsinki 3.4 million Euros per year?</h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">A report on the City of Helsinki's pilot project for the use of OpenOffice in the public administrations leaves the public with more questions than answers. The city trialled the Free Software productivity suite on the laptops of council members for ten months in 2011. The suite enjoyed high approval rates among its users. When the pilot was finished, the City produced a report stating that the costs of migrating the entire administration to OpenOffice would be very high.</p>

<p>"The City's report claims that it would cost EUR 3.4 million per year to run OpenOffice. This figure appears surprisingly high, and the report does not say how it was calculated," says Otto Kekäläinen", Finland coordinator of the Free Software Foundation Europe. "Without details, this figure seems baseless." Apparently, Helsinki's administration did not  even contact major OpenOffice service providers to ask for their prices when preparing the report.</p>

<p>The City of Helsinki should answer the following questions:</p>
<ul>
    <li>How were the figures calculated? The City needs to provide details to make them credible.</li>
    <li>How much of the migration cost is due to lock-in?</li>
    <li>Which service providers were contacted to ask for prices?</li>
</ul>

<p>Much of the purported high costs appear to stem from the fact that the City is locked into the products of a single software vendor. The City uses a large number of Microsoft products, and each of them makes it harder to replace any component of the city's IT infrastructure with programs from other vendors.</p>

<p>"The city should make it clear how much of the costs quoted in the reports stem actually from rolling out OpenOffice, and how much is merely the cost of breaking free from Microsoft's proprietary file formats and interfaces," says Kekäläinen.</p>

<p>It also appears that the pilot program suffered from a number of conceptual errors. For example, users involved in the pilot program did not receive training. Though support for Microsoft's latest proprietary file formats is normally included in OpenOffice, the version installed on the council members' computers did not support those formats. This meant that participants in the pilot program experienced problems exchanging data with the rest of the administration which users of the normal, full-featured OpenOffice version would not have experienced. Even so, most participants in the pilot projects declared themselves happy with the Free Software office suite.</p>

<p>"Many other cities have done before what Helsinki claims to be trying to do here", says Kekäläinen. "There are many good examples and helpful contacts out there, whether in Sweden, Munich or Spain. The experienced people there can help Helsinki achieve its Free Software goals a lot more quickly and at a lower cost."</p>

<p>FSFE has published an analysis of the report at <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2012/news-20120412-02.en.html">http://fsfe.org/news/2012/news-20120412-02.en.html</a></p>

<p>FSFE works for the public good. Its activities can be supported by signing up at <a href="http://fsfe.org/support">fsfe.org/support</a>.</p>


<h2>Contact</h2>

<h3>Finland</h3>
Otto Kekäläinen<br/>
FSFE Coordinator, Finland<br/>
otto@fsfe.org<br/>
+358 44 566 2204

<h3>International</h3>

Karsten Gerloff<br/>
FSFE President<br/>
gerloff@fsfe.org<br/>
+49 176 9690 4298

<p>If you wish to receive further updates, subscribe to our press release mailing list at <a href="http://fsfe.org/press">http://fsfe.org/press</a>.</p>

</body>

  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>fi</tag>
    <tag>openoffice</tag>
  </tags>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2012-03-06 18:28:55 +0100 (Tue, 06 Mar 2012) $ $Author: gollo $</timestamp>

</html>
