<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-04-26">
 <head>
<title>"FRAND is a FRAUD"</title>
 </head>
 <body>
 
<h1>"FRAND is a FRAUD"</h1>
<h3>Joint statement by FSFE and FSF US on UK Open Standards consultation</h3>

<p newsteaser="yes" id="introduction"> 
The UK government is holding a consultation about what sort of patent
licenses an "open" standard should require.  Anyone that develops 
<a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html" title="What is Free Software?">Free
Software</a> (as in freedom, not price) and would like it to be used in
the UK has reason to be concerned with this, along with anyone that
uses or distributes Free Software in the UK.
</p>

<p>
One option under consideration is to demand the patent holder give
everyone a royalty-free patent license for implementing the standard.
That at least permits free software to support the standard.
</p>

<p>
The other option is a criterion called "FRAND", which for claims to
mean "Fair, Reasonable And Non-Discriminatory".  What it really means
is that the patent holder must allow anyone to buy a license on
somewhat arbitrary terms.  The terms are often such as to exclude free
software entirely from implementing the standard.
</p>

<p>
For instance, these terms can (and in many cases do) require anyone
distributing the software to pay a license fee per copy of the program
distributed.  If you receive a program with a requirement to pay
someone if you redistribute it, you do not have 
<a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html#id-the-freedom-to-redistribute-copies-so-you-can-help-your-neighbor">freedom #2</a>, so the program is not
free software.  In effect, these terms discriminate against free
software, which is neither fair nor reasonable.  The term "FRAND" is a
FRAUD. Software standards must not carry restrictions that prevent us
from implementing them in Free Software. 
</p>

<p>
The existence of a software patent on a certain idea is not an
automatic sentence of exclusion for free software.  A few patent
holders have granted liberal patent licenses for all use of a certain
program, sometimes even covering all free programs distributed under
the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL).  Rather more have given
royalty-free licenses to implement specific standards, because that
was part of the requirement for approval of the standard.  But these
are a rare exception, and the difference between them and typical
"FRAND" licenses demonstrates how far the latter are from allowing
free software.
</p>

<p>
Please answer the <a href="http://consultation.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/openstandards/">consultation</a> to support the requirement for
royalty-free licenses for Open Standards. The closing date is May
3. (<a href="http://consultation.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/openstandards/how-to-respond">How to respond</a>.)
</p>

<p>    
FSFE has prepared <a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/os/uk-standards-consultation.html">draft answers</a> to some of the questions in the
survey. 
</p>
<p> 
Feel free to take inspiration from these answers, but please note that
it is always best to write your answer in your own words.
</p>
<p>
The need for this consultation arises from a harmful policy decision:
allowing patents to restrict the development, distribution and use of
software.  A correct decision on the question at hand will partly
reduce the damage that software patents do, but they will still do
damage.  Software patents put software developers, distributors and
sometimes even users in danger.  The UK ought to reconsider allowing
them at all.
</p>
</body>
 <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>uk</tag>
  <tag>Free Software</tag>
  <tag>Open Standards</tag>
  <tag>Policy</tag>
 </tags>
</html>
