<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2012-03-28">
  <head>
    <!--<title>Document Freedom Day 2012: Activists around the world celebrate
Open Standards</title>-->
  <title>Document Freedom Day 2012: Attivisti da tutto il mondo celebrano gli
Standard Aperti</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>

    <!--<h1>Document Freedom Day 2012: Activists around the world celebrate Open
Standards</h1>-->
<h1>Document Freedom Day 2012: Attivisti da tutto il mondo celebrano gli
Standard Aperti</h1>

	<!--<p newsteaser="yes">Free Software advocates worldwide are today
celebrating information accessibility and Open Standards. 48 events in 17
countries are using demonstrations, talks and workshops to explain why <a
href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a> and Free Software are crucial to
a free and competitive information society.</p>-->

    <p newsteaser="yes">
Attivisti del Software Libero di tutto il mondo celebrano oggi l'accessibilità
dell'informazione e gli Standard Aperti. Attraverso dimostrazioni, talk e
workshop, 48 eventi in 17 paesi illustrano come gli <a
href="/activities/os/os.html">Standard Aperti</a> e il Software Libero siano
fondamentali per una società dell'informazione libera e concorrenzale.
    </p>

	<!--<p>A network of 34 international <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/partners.html">partner organisations</a> are
carrying this message to new audiences, from Cairo to Argentina, Poland to
Taiwan, and the <a
href="http://erikjosefsson.eu/sites/default/files/global_dfd_invite.html">
European Parliament</a> to Aberystwyth University.</p>-->

    <p>
Un network di 34 <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/partners.html">organizzazioni partner
internazionali</a> diffondono il messaggio a nuovi pubblici, dal Cairo
all'Argentina, dalla Polonia a Taiwan, dal <a
href="http://erikjosefsson.eu/sites/default/files/global_dfd_invite.html">
Parlamento Europeo</a> all'Università di Aberystwyth.
    </p>

	<!--<p>"The growth of support for <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day</a> shows growing demand
for accessible formats and unpredjudiced standards" says Campaign Coordinator
Matthias Kirschner". "Citizens, businesses, and politicians alike are calling
for adoption of fairer and more compatible international standards". Prizes are
being awarded this year by Document Freedom Day teams in <a
href="/news/2012/news-20120328-01.html">Germany</a>, <a
href="http://www.cies.it/index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=
378:alla-domus-aequa-il-28-marzo-alle-18-si-parla-di-software-libero&amp;catid=
35:newscies&amp;Itemid=101">Italy</a>, Slovakia, and <a
href="http://www.linux.org.pl/news/kontener-na-newsy-i-eventy/document-freedom-
day-w-polsce">Poland</a>, to businesses and government offices which have
recently adopted Open Standards within their organisations.</p>-->


    <p>"Il crescente sostegno al <a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document
Freedom Day</a> dimostra come esista una crescente domanda per i formati
accessibili e gli standard imparziali" sostiene il coordinatore della campagna
Matthias Kirschner. "Cittadini, aziende e politici richiedono l'adozioni di
standard internazionali più giusti e compatibili". Dei premi vengono conferiti
quest'anno dai team del Document Freedom Day in <a
href="/news/2012/news-20120328-01.html">Germania</a>, <a
href="http://www.dfd-arezzo.tk/">Italia</a>, Slovacchia, e <a
href="http://www.linux.org.pl/news/kontener-na-newsy-i-eventy/document-freedom-
day-w-polsce">Polonia</a>, ad aziende ed istituzioni pubbliche che abbiano
recentemente adottato gli Standard Aperti nelle loro strutture.
    </p>


	<!--<p>Open Standards are a common language, publicly documented, that
computer programs can speak. They are central to interoperability and freedom of
choice in technology. Open Standards allow Free Software developers to create
programs that can interoperate with other solutions, so users can migrate away
from proprietary solutions.</p>-->

    <p>Gli Standard Aperti sono una lingua franca, pubblicamente documentata,
che i programmi informatici parlano. Sono fondamentali per l'interoperabilità e
la libertà di scelta nella tecnologia. Gli Standard Aperti permettono agli
sviluppatori di Software Libero di creare programmi che riescano ad interagire
con altre soluzioni, permettendo agli utenti di migrare dal software
proprietario al Software Libero.
    </p>

	<!--<p>"Fresh support from celebrities like <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/testimonials.html#quote-fry">Stephen Fry</a>,
and major community groups such as Open Rights Group have introduced Open
Standards to new groups this year" said Deputy Campaign Coordinator, Sam Tuke.
"We are delighted by the response we have received, and the additional political
impact Document Freedom Day has achieved".</p>-->

    <p>
Secondo Sam Tuke, il Vice Coordinatore della campagna, "Il sostegno da parte di
celebrità come <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/testimonials.html#quote-fry">Stephen Fry</a>,
e di organizzazioni come Open Rights Group ha permesso di introdurre gli
Standard Aperti a nuovi pubblici quest'anno. Siamo lieti della risposta
che abbiamo ricevuto, e dell'impatto politico aggiuntivo che il Document Freedom
Day ha avuto".</p>

	<!--<p>Document Freedom Day 2011 is facilitated by the Free Software
Foundation Europe, and supported by <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/sponsors.en.html">campaign patrons</a> Google
and Oracle.</p>-->

    <p>Il Document Freedom Day 2012 è agevolato dalla Free Software Foundation
Europe, e sostenuto dagli <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/sponsors.en.html">sponsor della campagna</a>
Google and Oracle.</p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2012-03-26 18:40:25 +0200 (Mon, 26 Mar 2012) $Author: mk
$</timestamp>

  <tags>
	<tag>DFD</tag>
	<tag>front-page</tag>
	<tag>matthias-kirschner</tag>
	<tag>sam-tuke</tag>
	<tag>stephen-fry</tag>
	<tag>open-standards</tag>
  </tags>
  <translator>Alessandro Polvani</translator>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
