<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2013-03-21">



<head>
	<title>Handcuffs - DFD</title>


</head>

<body>

	<h2>You suggest, we send handcuffs: Who needs education about
standards?</h2>

	<div id="handcuffs_uk">
		If you are from the UK, please see <a
href="/handcuffs/handcuffs-uk.html">this page</a>
	</div>

	<p newsteaser="yes">Do you know a certain politician who should really learn more about
Open Standards? Have you tried to explain the importance of Open Standards to
your boss, friends, local administration or service, but without any results?
Would support from the outside world help? Definitely! Inform our Document
Freedom Day (DFD) team about your situation and we will send a free, remarkable
gift to your contact to help them learn more about the power of Open
Standards.</p>

	<p>All you have to do is submit the name and postal address of the
person you'd like the DFD team to contact by <b>March 30</b>. The DFD team will
then deliver by post gratis Open Standards educational packages, consisting of a
short letter explaining the topic and - to symbolise
proprietary standards - <b>a pair of handcuffs!</b> The DFD team is planning to
send 100 packages, so submit your suggestion soon to be sure your contact will
receive their free materials. DFD packages will be sent on April 4, and you can
track shipment through our <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/handcuffs/">package tracking map</a> on the
right.</p>

<p	>Your support directly increases the amount of packages sent. Any
donation above the amount of 10 EUR gives you the right to indicate the name of
an additional person who will receive our package.</p>

	<p>So, who needs education about Open Standards? <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/handcuffs/">Tell us today!</a></p>

	<p><em>Document Freedome Day Team</em></p>

</body>

  <tags>
    <tag>en</tag>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
  </tags>

</html>
