<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2013-09-21">
<head>
	<title>Free Sofware activists ask to the Italian Authority for the protection of personal data to publish readable documents.</title>
</head>


<body>
 <h1>Free Sofware activists ask to the Italian Authority for the protection of personal data to publish readable documents.</h1>

<!--<p newsteaser="yes">
La FSFE, insieme ad altre venti organizzazioni italiane, ha scritto una lettera al Presidente dell'Autorità Garante per la protezione dei Dati Personali, Antonello Soro, per segnalare un problema di leggibilità di un documento presente sul sito dell'Autorità. Tale documento, gravato da particolari script che lo rendono illeggibile con Software Libero, obbliga il cittadino ad utilizzare uno specifico programma proprietario. Si tratta di un ostacolo alla libertà di scelta da parte degli utenti, e causa un grave episodio di distorsione del mercato.</p>-->
<p newsteaser="yes">
FSFE, together with other nineteen Italian organisations, wrote a letter to the President of the Authority for the protection of personal data, Antonello Soro, to signal a readability problem of a document published on the website of the Authority. This document, burdened by scripts making it unreadable with Free Software, forces citizens to use a particular proprietary program. That is an obstacle to the freedom of choice by users, and it causes a bad episode of market distortion.</p>


<h2>Beyond the Pdfreaders campaign</h2> 

<!--<p>La campagna <a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders</a> ha dato in questi anni risultati eccellenti. L'Italia in particolar modo si è distinta per l'elevato numero di istituzioni segnalate e di bug risolti, ma la campagna PDFreaders Italiana non si arresta. I fellow Italiani hanno scovato sul sito del Garante per la Protezione dei Dati Personali un <a href="http://www.garanteprivacy.it/garante/document?ID=1915835">documento PDF</a> illeggibile per chi utilizza Software Libero nel quale viene fatta esplicita pubblicità all'uso di un lettore PDF proprietario. La FSFE ha così deciso di scrivere una <a href="http://download.fsfe.org/advocacy/pdfreaders/pdfreaders-letter-italy.pdf">lettera</a> (LINK alla lettera) al presidente dell'autorità Garante per la Protezione dei Dati Personali per fare notare che questo comportamente non è neutrale nei confronti del mercato del software e che alcuni dei documenti pubblicati sul sito istituzionale sono illeggibili per tutti coloro che utilizzano Software Libero.</p>-->
<p>The <a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders</a> campaign gave during last years excellent results. Italy particularly distinguished itself for the high number of signaled institutions and solved bugs, but the italian PDFReaders campaign doesn't stop. Italian Fellows discovered on the Authority website a <a href="http://www.garanteprivacy.it/garante/document?ID=1915835">PDF document</a> unreadable for Free Software users. In this document, the use of a particular PDF reader is advertised. Together with the supporting organisations, FSFE decided to write a  <a href="http://download.fsfe.org/advocacy/pdfreaders/pdfreaders-letter-italy.pdf">letter</a> to the Authority for the protection of Personal data, to point out how this behaviour isn't neutral, and that some of the document on the institutional website aren't readable for Free Software users.</p>

<h3>Contacts</h3>

Alessandro Polvani<br/>
Italy deputy coordinator<br/>
alessandro.polvani@fsfe.org<br/>

<p>If you wish to receive further updates, subscribe to our press release mailing list at <a href="http://fsfe.org/press">http://fsfe.org/press</a>.</p>


<h2>Further information</h2>
 
  	<h2 id="subpages">Navigazione</h2>
  
    <ul>
    
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/follow-up.html">PDFReaders campaign page</a></h3>
        <p>Find out what we already did, and how you can contribute, to the PDFReaders campaign.</p>
      </li>
    
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">List of signaled institutions</a></h3>
        <p>
          Find out which Public institutions were signaled in your country.
        </p>
      </li>


      <li><!--relocated-->
	<h3><a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">Free PDF Readers list</a></h3>
	<p>

		The pdfreaders.org website collects the list of all free PDF readers, with suggestions to download them, according the technical features of your system.
	</p>
      </li>

       <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">The Petition</a></h3>
        <p>

					"Petition to remove advertisements to proprietary software from public institutions websites".
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>


</body>

 <tags>
  <tag>pdfreaders</tag>
  <tag>italy</tag>
 </tags>
</html>



