<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2013-03-28">
  <head>
    <title>1&amp;1 Internet AG receives German Document Freedom Award </title>
  </head>
  
  <body>

    <h1>1&amp;1 Internet AG receives German Document Freedom Award </h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">Karlsruhe, 28 March 2012 -  1&amp;1, GMX and WEB.DE
    receive the German Document Freedom Award for the use of Open Standards.
    The prize is awarded by the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) and the
    Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure e.V. (FFII) for
    automatically addition to their e-mail addresses.The prize is awarded
    annually on the occasion of Document Freedom Day for the promotion of Open
    Standards. Last years winners include <a
      href="/news/2011/news-20110330-01.html">tagesschau.de</a>, <a
      href="/news/2010/news-20100324-01.html">Deutschland Radio</a>, and the <a
      href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release-de/2008q1/000124.html">German
      Foreign
    Office</a>.</p>

    <p>In Karlsruhe FSFE and FFII handed over a certificate and the Document
    Freedom Award- cake to Jan Oetjen, CEO Portals from 1&amp;1, and Tino Anic
    and his team, who are responsible for this functionality. "The Extensible
    Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP, previously called Jabber) is an <a
      href="/projects/os/os.html"> Open Standard</a> communication protocol
    used for chatting. A <a href="http://xmpp.org/xmpp-software/clients/">
      variety of chat programs support this protocol</a>, and it is also used
    in VoIP applications.
    Every e-mail users of 1&amp;1, GMX and Web.de get such an XMPP account by
    default, which has the same name as the e-mail address.</p>

    <p>"Unlike closed services such as Facebook and Skype, 1&amp;1 has provided
    open connectivity with the rest of the Jabber/XMPP network for many years.
    They are to be commended for supporting truly free communication using
    Internet standards." says Peter Saint-Andre, Executive Director XMPP
    Foundation.</p>

    <p>Like 1&amp;1, everyone can set up an XMPP server and enable it to
    connect with other XMPP standard compliant servers around the world. People
    having an account from 1&amp;1 are able to chat with other contacts, within
    or outside the 1&amp;1 network, using any XMPP supporting client they want.
    They can chat with customers from other XMPP supporting companies like
    Google (with Google Talk), with people who set up their own Free  Software
    XMPP server, and with all of FSFE's supporters, which also  automatically
    get an XMPP account. When using Skype, ICQ, Facebook, Yahoo messenger or
    Microsoft Network (MSN), all the people who want to chat with each other
    have to use the same provider.</p>

    <p>"Facebook and Microsoft Network (MSN) also use XMPP for their chat
    functionality. But they disabled the XMPP server feature to connect with
    other XMPP servers. This way Facebook and MSN are restricting their users
    to their own service: You are only allowed to talk with people who also
    have an account at their service and surrendered their data. Use XMPP and
    give your friends the freedom to decide which software and which provider
    they want to use and trust!", says Matthias Kirschner, FSFE's German
    Coordinator.</p>

    <p>"We are very honoured to receive this award. It confirms our decision to
    use the open standard XMPP for our online chat within WEB.DE, GMX and
    1&amp;1 mailboxes. It allows our users to chat without technical barriers
    across the web.", says Jan Oetjen, CEO 1&amp;1 Internet Portals.</p>

    <p>Stephan Uhlmann, FFII board member, adds: "We're inspired by companies
    like 1&amp;1 Internet AG who not only base their business on Internet open
    standards, like email and the web, but also keep these services
    interoperable and do not rely on lock-in effects to convince their
    customers."</p>

    <ul> 
      
      <li>Press pictures of the award ceremony are available on <a
        href="TODO">TODO</a>.</li> 
      
      <li><a
        href="http://wissen.dradio.de/kommunikation-autarkes-chatten.36.de.html?dram:article_id=15749">
        DRadio Wissen interview</a> with Deputy German Coordinator Torsten
      Grote about XMPP (in German) explaining the importance of XMPP. (<a
        href="http://ondemand-mp3.dradio.de/file/dradio/2012/0/26/drw_201203261034_autark_chatten_gespraech_mit_thor_10eb6223.mp3">Audio</a>,
      unfortunately only mp3). </li> 

      <li><a href="/news/2012/news-20120321-01.html">You suggest, we send
        handcuffs: Who needs education about standards?</a></li>
    
    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$Author: mk $</timestamp>

  <tags>
    <tag>en</tag>
    <tag>ilovefs</tag>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
