<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-11-22">
<head>
 <title>PDFreaders recommended by government - and what else we achived</title>
</head>
<body>
 <h1>PDFreaders recommended by government - and what else we achived</h1>
 
<p newsteaser="yes" id="introduction"> Two weeks have been gone since we launched the PDF Readers fundraising.  First,
	we want to thank everyone who made a donation. Currently, we received 856
	EUR (more than 75% of the goal). Thanks to your donation, and you informing
	your friends about this work, we will reach the 1100 EUR until the 4th of
	December. </p>

<p>What happened beside the fact that 554 administrations fixed the
advertisement? Some politicians are already working to fix the advertisment for
non-free software European wide and on the Member State level. </p>

<p>For example, at the European level, Members of the European Parliament
submitted parliamentary <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/parliamentary-questions-eu.en.html"> questions to the Commission </a> to find out where the Commission does this advertisement; why they do so; if they tested their websites with Free Software PDF readers; and how they plan to
solve the problem for the Commission's own website and the websites of other
public institutions in the Member States.</p>

<p>On the national level, the German Green Party made a statement and submitted 18
questions to the German Federal Government about advertisement of proprietary
PDFreader software on <a href="http://gruen-digital.de/2012/03/document-freedom-day-kleine-anfrage-zur-werbung-fuer-adobe-reader-eingereicht"> German Federal Government's websites (in German)</a> </p>

<p>In addition, the German Government is now recommends to use our text snippet
"to open this PDF file, you need a PDF reader. You can download one of the
following programs..." in their <a
href="http://www.cio.bund.de/DE/Architekturen-und-Standards/Migrationsleitfaden-und-Migrationshilfen/migrationsleitfaden_node.html">new
migration guide</a> (in German) and highlights that there should be no
advertisement for non-free software readers by public authorities.</p>

<p>Besides that, since the fundraising started, the number of people supporting
our <a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">'Petition For The Removal Of Proprietary Software Advertising On Public
Institution Websites'</a> has now reached 2481 signatures.</p>
<p>Once again, thanks for supporting this campaign and for your funding.</p>

<p>Finally, we would like to suggest everyone to turn off Javascript before you go
to the <a href="http://www.ulule.com/pdfreaders/">donation page</a>. This way, you will avoid to run nonfree
Javascript code. We apologise for this inconvenience, which is an issue
related with this platform. Moreover, we have asked the platform managers to
address this problem, and they agreed to work on this.</p>

</body>
     <tags>
     <tag>front-page</tag>    
      <tag>en</tag>
      <tag>PDFreaders campaign</tag>
      <tag>fundraising</tag> 
 </tags>
</html>

