<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-12-08">
<head>
 <title>First, do no harm: European Parliament must delay vote on unitary patent</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>First, do no harm: European Parliament must delay vote on unitary patent</h1>
<p newsteaser="yes" id="introduction">
The European Parliament is about to vote on a "unitary patent" for
Europe in its plenary session on December 11. The proposal currently
on the table is widely known to have serious legal and practical
problems. In the light of these problems, Free Software Foundation
Europe urges the Parliament's members to delay the vote until a better
solution can be worked out.
</p>
<p>
Under the current proposal, the Parliament would agree to give up its
power to shape Europe's innovation policy. This is a dangerous
proposition. Knowledge and innovation are crucial to our future, and
we cannot simply delegate their management to a technocratic body such
as the European Patent Organisation. Europe's political institutions
have to have the final say over innovation policy. This is a
responsibility which MEPs cannot shirk.
</p>
<p>
"MEPs must not saddle Europe's innovators with a rotten compromise.
Innovation is a key part of our common future, and it is too important
to be gambled away in a hasty decision," says Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's
President.
</p>
<p>
The political process that has led up to the current proposal has
suffered from a marked lack of transparency. The European Parliament
still has not published the text of the inter-instutional agreement
which it reached with the Council on November 19. 
</p>
<p>
"We are deeply alarmed that such a crucial text may be ramrodded
through Parliament before MEPs and the interested public have had a
chance to properly consider the text," says Gerloff.
</p>
<p>

The most important <em>practical problems</em> with the current package:
</p>

<ul>
  <li>Instead of providing uniformity and transparency for market
   participants, the current proposal will create <em>divergence and
   confusion</em>. It will be hard for anyone to obtain clarity on how a
   patent may be used, or where its powers end.</li>

  <li><em>Lack of limitations and exceptions</em> puts Europeans'freedom to
   innovate at risk. There is no provision for compulsory licenses,
   posing a grave danger to public welfare. The lack of a research
   exception puts a millstone of risk around the neck of Europe's
   scientists.</li>

 - <li><em>Small and medium-sized enterprises</em> are the backbone of
   Europe's economy. If this wrong-headed compromise is accepted, they
   will bear the brunt of the resulting problems. This is not
   something that Europe can afford, much less in the midst of an
   economic crisis.</li>
</ul>

<p>
The most important <em>legal problems</em> with the current package: 
</p>

<ul>
  <li>The compromise would lead to a <em>fragmentation of the internal market</em>,
   as patents would not be uniformly enforceable across all EU member
   states. Additionally, there would be four overlapping levels of
   patents existing side by side. This will inevitably create
   substantial confusion and business risks for innovators and
   companies.</li>
 
  <li>A proliferation of courts that may handle patent litigation will
   inevitably lead to a <em>fragmentation of jurisprudence</em>. This
   will even further confuse anyone who comes into contact with the
   patent system, increase the costs of litigation, and make patent
   risks even harder to calculate for businesses.</li>

  <li>The envisioned Unified Patent Court is <em>incompatible with European
   law</em>. Europe's policy makers have failed to address the problems
   highlighted by the European Court of Justice in its Opinion 1/09
   (March 2011). Even the Parliament's own Legal Services department
   has doubts about the package's legality.</li>
</ul>

<p>
A package which leaves such significant problems unaddressed is not
fit to be adopted by responsible lawmakers. Policy makers are keen to
put this hotly contested issue behind them. But this desire must not
lead them to rush into an ill-considered compromise with numerous
known problems, in the face of widespread opposition from the patent
system's stakeholders.
</p>
<p>
FSFE joins large parts of the innovation community, and in particular the
<a href="http://www.ip.mpg.de/en/pub/publications/opinions/unitary_patent_package.cfm">Max-Planck-Institute</a> in urging the Parliament to reconsider the
unitary patent package. Until a better solution can be achieved, MEPs
should heed the age-old principle: First, do no harm.
</p>
 
<h3>More information:</h3>
<ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.ip.mpg.de/en/pub/publications/opinions/unitary_patent_package.cfm">Max
  Planck Institute for "Intellectual Property" and Competition Law: The Unitary Patent Package: Twelve Reasons for Concern</a></li>

  <li><a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/swpat/current/unitary-patent.en.html">Overview
  of issues with the unitary patent package</a></li>

  <li><a href="https://www.unitary-patent.eu/">Resources on the
  unitary patent package</a></li>
</ul>


</body>
    <tags>
      <tag>front-page</tag>
      <tag>en</tag>
      <tag>swpat</tag>
      <tag>eu</tag>
 </tags>
</html>
