<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2012-03-28">
  <head>
    <title>Document Freedom Day 2012: Activists around the world celebrate Open
Standards</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>

    <h1>Document Freedom Day 2012: Activists around the world celebrate Open
Standards</h1>

	<p newsteaser="yes">Free Software advocates worldwide are today
celebrating information accessibility and Open Standards. 48 events in 17
countries are using demonstrations, talks and workshops to explain why <a
href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a> and Free Software are crucial to
a free and competitive information society.</p>

	<p>A network of 34 international <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/partners.html">partner organisations</a> are
carrying this message to new audiences, from Cairo to Argentina, Poland to
Taiwan, and the <a
href="http://erikjosefsson.eu/sites/default/files/global_dfd_invite.html">
European Parliament</a> to Aberystwyth University.</p>

	<p>"The growth of support for <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day</a> shows growing demand
for accessible formats and unprejudiced standards" says Campaign Coordinator
Matthias Kirschner. "Citizens, businesses, and politicians alike are calling for
adoption of fairer and more compatible international standards". Prizes are
being awarded this year by Document Freedom Day teams in <a
href="/news/2012/news-20120328-01.html">Germany</a>, <a
href="http://www.dfd-arezzo.tk/">Italy</a>, Slovakia and <a
href="http://www.linux.org.pl/news/kontener-na-newsy-i-eventy/document-freedom-
day-w-polsce">Poland</a>, to businesses and government offices which have
recently adopted Open Standards within their organisations.</p>

	<p>Open Standards are a common language, publicly documented, that
computer programs can speak. They are central to interoperability and freedom of
choice in technology. Open Standards allow Free Software developers to create
programs that can interoperate with other solutions, so users can migrate away
from proprietary solutions.</p>

	<p>"Fresh support from celebrities like <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/testimonials.html#quote-fry">Stephen Fry</a>,
and major community groups such as Open Rights Group have introduced Open
Standards to new groups this year" said Deputy Campaign Coordinator, Sam Tuke.
"We are delighted by the response we have received, and the additional political
impact Document Freedom Day has achieved".</p>

	<p>Document Freedom Day 2012 is facilitated by the Free Software
Foundation Europe, and supported by <a
href="http://documentfreedom.org/sponsors.en.html">campaign patrons</a> Google
and Oracle.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2012-03-26 18:40:25 +0200 (Mon, 26 Mar 2012) $Author: mk
$</timestamp>

  <tags>
	<tag>dfd</tag>
	<tag>front-page</tag>
	<tag>matthias-kirschner</tag>
	<tag>sam-tuke</tag>
	<tag>stephen-fry</tag>
	<tag>open-standards</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->