<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Free Software in Education</title>
  </head>
<body class="article" microformats="h-entry">

  <p id="category">
  <a href="/work.html">Our work</a>
  </p>

    <h1>Free Software in Education</h1>

    <p id="introduction"> 
      We actively promote the use of Free Software in schools and
      universities as it encourages schooling of understanding over
      product training and upholds the scientific principle.
    </p>

    <p>
      Already during its first general assembly, FSFE identified <a
      href="http://fsfe.org/about/reports/es-2003">education as
      one of the most important areas for activity</a> so young people and
      students would have the chance of getting in touch with knowledge instead
      of mere product schooling. Therefore the FSFE started a <a href="/activities/education/eduteam.en.html">Free Software in
Education working group</a> to focus on these efforts.  Today, it acts as a hub and works on
      monitoring the European situation.  We participate in Free Software
      events and assist other initiatives in making the change possible. 
    </p>

    <p>
      Amongst other arguments for Free Software, here are four of the key benefits for education:
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Sharing:</strong> Using free software allows schools to
        teach children to share and cooperate.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Learning to program:</strong> The possibility/freedom to
        tinker motivates children to learn more.
      </li>
    
      <li>
        <strong>Easy to administer:</strong> Free Software is stable,
        secure and reliable.  It offers unrestricted access to the source
        code, thus allowing to modify or adapt it to the schools'
        needs.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Licences:</strong> With Free Software, teachers can give
        a copy to each student.  There is no risk to mislead any child
        to use an illegal copy.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <related-feed tag="education"/>
  </body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe">
    <div id="related-content">
        <h3>Further information</h3>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="/freesoftware/education/argumentation.html">Why Free Software in Education</a></li>
          <li><a href="/activities/education/edu-related-content.html">Overview of all edu related information</a></li>
          <li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/education">GNU's education page</a></li>
          <li><a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Education">Edu pages in our Wiki</a></li>
          <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/category/education/">Free Software Education News</a></li>
        </ul> 
        
        <h3>Ongoing campaigns</h3>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="//documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day!</a></li>
          <li><a href="/campaigns/nledu/">Unlocking education in NL</a></li>
        </ul>

        <h3>Get involved</h3>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/discussion">Join our discussion list</a></li>
          <li><a href="/about/printable/">Spread our edu leaflets</a></li>
          <li><a href="http://l.fsfe.org/edutask">Complete a task in our tracker</a></li>
          <li><a href="mailto:edu-team@lists.fsfe.org">Contact us</a></li>
			
        </ul>
    </div>
</sidebar>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
