<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>FSFE - Education Team</title>
	</head>

	<body>
		<div align="center">
			<h2>Education Team</h2>
		</div>
		<h3>Contents</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="#introduction">Introduction</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="#mission">Mission</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="#members">Members</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="#getinvolved">Get Involved</a>
			</li>
		</ul>

		<a name="Introduction"/>
		<h3>Introduction</h3>
			<p>
				With the increasing usage of information technology, software
				competency has become a key skill in modern society. Software is
				taking an essential part of our lives for the way we communicate,
				socialise and produce. In the overwhelming majority of sectors and
				industries, students of all ages require strong IT skills to become
				employable, productive, and competitive.

			</p>
			<p>
				Free Software applications provide the best tools for educators. They
				foster transferable skills and concepts based upon international open
				standards, rather than familiarity with individual products from
				particular vendors. Free Software in education upholds scientific
				principles of participation, collaboration and peer review, and in doing
				so develops additional learning skills by sharing knowledge and
				achievements amongst students. Free Software usage also encourages a
				culture of participating and doing instead of just consuming.

			</p>
			<a name="mission"/>
			<h3>Mission Statement</h3>
			<p>
				The goal of FSFE's Education Team is to bring the benefits of Free
				Software to all education-related activities and institutions. In
				accordance with <a href="/about/principles">FSFE's Self Conception</a>,
				we shall bring the use of Free Software in education to political
				agendas across European borders, and inform administrations, teachers,
				students and their parents about the benefits Free Software provides.

			</p>
			<p>
				We shall foster communication and cooperation among these groups, and
				establish and extend dialogue between them and Free Software developers
				and advocates. We shall establish a legal framework that shall prohibit
				discrimination against Free Software and its users, and make available
				FSFE's extensive expertise to all parties involved. </p>

		<a name="members"/>
		<h3>Members</h3>
		<ul>
			<li>
				Adrien Rami
			</li>
			<li>
				Björn Schießle
			</li>
			<li>
				Elias Aarnio
			</li>
			<li>
				Florimond Boquet
			</li>
			<li>
				Guido Arnold (edu-team deputy coordinator)
			</li>
			<li>
				Karsten Gerloff
			</li>
			<li>
				Kostas Antoniou
			</li>
			<li>
				Matthias Kirschner
			</li>
			<li>
				Michael Kesper
			</li>
			<li>
				Nicolas Jean
			</li>
			<li>
				Thomas Jensch (edu-team coordinator)
			</li>
			<li>
				Sam Tuke
			</li>
			<li>
				Sebastian Seitz
			</li>
			<li>
				Sylvain Denis
			</li>
		</ul>

		<a name="getinvolved"/>
		<h3>Get Involved</h3>
		<p>
			The team is constantly looking for more volunteers. If you want to be
			part of this effort (which means that you are devoted to it, not just
			observing), we have some requirements:
		</p>
		<ul>
			<li>
				you have a thorough understanding of Free Software
			</li>
			<li>
				you agree with the mission statement above 
			</li>
			<li>
				advantageous: previous work in that field;
			</li>
			<li>
				you should live in Europe (i.e. <a href="http://www.gnu.org/education/">North America</a> and
				<a href="http://www.fsfla.org/svnwiki/about/participate.en#mailman-listinfo-educacao-education">Latin America</a> 
                                have their own educational efforts, so please join them if
				you live there).
			</li>
		</ul>
		<p>
			Contact us via
			<a href="mailto:edu-team@fsfeurope.org">edu-team@fsfeurope.org</a>.
		</p>

      <h2><span>Edu-Team</span></h2>
      
      <!-- this element fetches all team members which are listed as being a member 
      of this country's team. Edit /abount/people/people.en.xml to change which 
      members will be listed here -->
      <country-team-list />
	</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>

<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
