<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Education</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>



  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="projects/education/eduteam.en.html">Education Task Force</a>

    <h1>Reasons to push for Free Software in your university</h1>

    <p class="background">
    Free Software gives you choice. No matter which program or
    operating system you pick, your files will work fine, and your
    favourite programs will be available. There's no license fee to
    pay, and you can modify your software as you like.
    </p>

    <h2>Free Software improves your education<br/>
-------------------------------------------------------</h2>
  <h2>Acquire displayable skills </h2>

  <p>
     Nowadays, it is not enough to know how to use a certain office program. 
It's important to understand the concepts underlying a whole category or 
type of software not merely how to use a particular application. 

Instead of learning just one application, understand how to use a whole
category of programs! You'll be able to quickly adapt to any IT
environment, a key skill nowadays.
    </p>

  <h2>Be independent</h2>

  <p>If you are taught to rely on proprietary software, you will depend
on something you'll have to pay for. If you learn to rely on Free 
Software, you can continue using this software in your adult life while 
helping others by sharing it.
    </p>

    <h2>Learning in native language</h2>

    <p>Free Software applications are being translated into almost any language. 
Thus you can learn and focus on the actual subject without any language or 
cultural barriers.
    </p>

<h2>Using Free Software is the logical economic decision<br/>
-------------------------------------------------------</h2>
  <h2>Keep your university independent</h2>

<p>
Universities should be centers of learning, not marketing channels for
software. Free Software keeps their IT independent of any particular
software vendor.</p>

  <h2>Spend on brains, not licenses</h2>

<p>Money is always tight in education. Available funds should go towards
  teaching and building skills, rather than paying license fees for
  proprietary software.</p>

  <h2>Be ecologically responsible</h2>

   <p>
        Free Software doesn't require powerful hardware and runs on almost any 
computer. It can give new life to old computers, saving both money and
     the environment. 
    </p>

   <h2>Contribute to a free society<br/>
-------------------------------------------------------</h2>
  <h2>Solidarity</h2>
 <p>Using Free Software allows you to cooperate with others  
and join a global community that shares knowledge.
    </p>

  <h2>Liberty</h2>

<p>Free Software is about freedom, not price. With Free Software, you have 
the control over the software you use. You can use, study, share and improve it.</p>

  <h2>Equality</h2>

  <p>
     With Free Software, teachers can give a copy to each
     student. Students with fewer financial resources
     have access to the same tools as their peers.
    </p> 


    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstrasse 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: edu-team@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/projects/education<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-07-17 07:20:49 +0200 (Sat, 17 Jul 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
