<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Education</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
<!--@translators : please don't translate, the leaflets aren't approved yet-->

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/education/eduteam.html">Education Task Force</a>

    <h1>Reasons to prefer Free Software for your child's education</h1>

    <p class="background">
     When you send your child to school, you expect that he/she comes back 
with a certain knowledge basis, a certain social behavior. Knowledge is 
universal. So is Free Software. Social behavior implicates values and 
philosophy. So does Free Software. By implementing Free Software in schools, 
we could reach a more effective educative system.</p>

    <h2>Sharing</h2>

    <p>Using Free Software allows your child to learn to share and cooperate 
and thus join a whole community that shares knowledge. 
    </p>

    <h2>Independence</h2>

    <p>Teaching a child to rely on proprietary software makes him dependent on 
something s/he'll have to pay for. Teaching your child to rely on Free Software 
allows him/her to continue using this software in his/her adult life while 
helping others by sharing it. </p>

    <h2>Learning to program</h2>

    <p>
      The possibility to tinker motivates children to learn more. Free Software 
allows them to learn about computers at any depth. 
    </p>

    <h2>Learning to use software</h2>

    <p>
     Free Software gives children the possibility to learn how software works and thus 
helps them to understand the concepts underlying a whole category or type of software. 
They are then able to adapt to any environment, a key skill nowadays.
    </p>

    <h2>Learning in native language</h2>

    <p>Free Software applications are being translated into almost any language. 
Thus, your child can learn and focus on the actual subject without any language or 
cultural barriers.
    </p>

 <h2>Equality at home</h2>

    <p>
     With Free Software, teachers can give a copy of a program to each child, 
without risking to mislead him/her to use an illegal copy. Thus, you are not put 
in a position to make a financial decision and children of families with 
less financial resources can learn with the same tools as every other child.
    </p> 

    <h2>Intelligent use of the school's money</h2>

    <p>
     Without licence fees, the school saves money and can use it to train 
the teachers or for technical support to disburden the teachers, and 
thereby improve the quality of teaching.
   </p>

<h2>Intelligent savings on hardware</h2>

    <p>
     Free Software can be used with minimal hardware requirements on almost any 
hardware. Using and teaching Free Software also allows the school to 
save money on the purchases of computers and updates, and thereby reinvest it rather on grey matter.
    </p>
 
 <h2>Stability and Reliability</h2>

<p>Free Software is stable, secure and reliable. Security and other updates can 
be implemented in a minute. Its maintenance is automated and thus time-saving.</p>

<h2>Security</h2>

<p>Free Software is impervious to current viruses.</p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstrasse 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: edu-team@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/activities/education<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-07-17 07:20:49 +0200 (Sat, 17 Jul 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
