<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Education</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>


  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/education/eduteam.html">Education Task Force</a>

    <h1>Reasons for schools to use Free Software</h1>

    <p class="background">
  Access to software determines who may participate in a digital
  society. The freedoms to use, study, share, and improve software
  allow everyone to participate on an equal basis. There are many
  reasons to use Free Software in general. Here, we have collected
  some that are particularly important for schools:

   </p>

    <h2>Sharing</h2>

    <p>Using Free Software allows schools to teach children to share and cooperate 
and thus join a whole community that shares knowledge.
    </p>

    <h2>Equality at home</h2>

    <p>
     With Free Software, teachers can give a copy to each student. Thus children 
of families with few financial resources can learn with the same tools as every 
other child.
    </p> 

    <h2>Learning to program</h2>

    <p>
      The possibility to tinker motivates children to learn more. Free Software 
allows them to understand computers in depth.
    </p>

    <h2>Learning to use software</h2>

    <p>
     Free Software permits children to learn how software works and thus 
to understand the concepts underlying a whole category or type of software. 
They are then able to adapt to any environment, a key skill nowadays.
    </p>

    <h2>Learning in native language</h2>

    <p>Free Software applications can be translated into any language.
Thus each child can learn and focus on the actual subject without any
language or cultural barriers.
    </p>

    <h2>Independence</h2>

    <p>Teaching children to rely on proprietary software makes them
dependent on a software vendor. Teaching them to rely on Free
Software, the children can continue using this software in their adult
life while helping others by sharing it. Using and teaching Free
Software also makes the school itself independent from software companies.
    </p>

    <h2>Slash your hardware costs</h2>

    <p>
     Free Software doesn't require powerful hardware and runs on almost any 
computer. It can give new life to old computers, saving both money and
the environment. 
    </p>

  <h2>Forget your licenses costs</h2>

    <p>
     Without licence fees, the school saves money and can use it to train 
teachers, or for technical support to make life easier for teachers.
    </p>

  <h2>Don't worry about your licenses</h2>

    <p>
    With Free Software, there are no worries about expiry dates or costs of the 
licenses. Free Software stays free in every sense. All students have
    access to perfectly legal copies.
    </p>

    <h2>Administer easily</h2>

<p>Free Software is stable, secure and reliable. Security and other updates can 
be implemented in a minute. Maintenance is automated and thus time-saving.</p>


    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: edu-team@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/activities/education/<br/>
    </address>
<p>This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License. For sources and contributors, check http://l.fsfe.org/edu</p>
  </body>
<!--Please help FSFE make the switch to Creative Commons: use this license for your publication:-->
<legal type="cc-license">
  <license>https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en</license>
  <notice>This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.</notice>
</legal>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-07-17 07:20:49 +0200 (Sat, 17 Jul 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
