<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<a href="FreeSoftware.pdf">[ PDF; 92k ]</a>
</center><br />

<center>
<h1>Free Software</h1>
<h2>(a.k.a. ``Libre Software'' or ``Open Source'')</h2>
</center>

<p>
During PrepCom3, a regular request was for a reference document on Free
Software and its role in the World Summit on the Information Society
(WSIS). This document seeks to provide such reference.</p>

<p>Free in
Free Software is referring to freedom, not price. Having been used in
this meaning since the 80s, the first documented complete definition appears to
be the GNU's Bulletin, vol. 1
no. 6<A NAME="tex2html1"
  HREF="#foot47"><SUP>1</SUP></A>,
published January 1989. In particular, four freedoms define<A NAME="tex2html3"
  HREF="#foot48"><SUP>2</SUP></A> Free Software:</p>

<ul>

<li><B>The freedom to run the program, for any purpose.</B>
<br />
<br />
<em>Placing restrictions on the use of Free Software, such as time
      (``30 days trial period'', ``license expires January 1st, 2004'')
      purpose (``permission granted for research and non-commercial
      use'') or geographic area (``must not be used in country X'')
      makes a program non-free.</em>
</li><br />

<li><B>The freedom to study how the program works, and adapt it to
      your needs.</B>
<br />
<br />
<em>Placing legal or practical restrictions on the comprehension or
      modification of a program, such as mandatory purchase of special
      licenses, signing of a Non-Disclosure-Agreement (NDA) or - for
      programming languages that have multiple forms or representation
      - making the preferred human way of comprehending and editing a
      program (``source code'') inaccessible also makes it
      proprietary (non-free). Without the freedom to modify a program, people will
      remain at the mercy of a single vendor.</em>
</li><br />

<li><B>The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your
      neighbor.</B>
<br />
<br />
<em>Software can be copied/distributed at virtually no cost. If you are
      not allowed to give a program to a person in need, that makes a
      program non-free. This can be done for a charge, if you so
      choose.</em>
</li><br />

<li><B>The freedom to improve the program, and release your
      improvements to the public, so that the whole community
      benefits.</B>
<br />
<br />
<em>Not everyone is an equally good programmer in all fields. Some
      people don't know how to program at all. This freedom allows those
      who do not have the time or skills to solve a problem to
      indirectly access the freedom to modify. This can be done for a
      charge.</em>
</li>
</ul>

<p>These freedoms are rights, not obligations, although respecting
these freedoms for society may at times oblige the individual. Any
person can choose to not make use of them, but may also choose to make
use of all of them. In particular, it should be understood that Free
Software does not exclude commercial use. If a program fails to allow
commercial use and commercial distribution, it is not Free
Software. Indeed a growing number of companies base their business
model completely or at least partially on Free Software, including
some of the largest proprietary software vendors. Free Software makes
it legal to provide help and assistance, it does not make it
mandatory.</p>

<br />
<h3>Terminology</h3>
<p>English seems to be the only language in which such a strong
ambiguity exists between freedom and price. When translated into
other languages, Free Software becomes ``logiciels libre'' in French,
``software libre'' in Spanish, ``software libero'' in Portugese, ``Fri
Software'' in Danish or whatever is the equivalent term in the local
language referring to freedom.</p>

<br />
<b>Open Source</b><br />
<p>On February 3rd 1998, in the wake of Netscapes
announcement to release their browser as Free Software, a group of
people met in Palo Alto in the Silicon Valley and proposed to start a
marketing campaign for Free Software using the term ``Open Source.'' The
goal was to seek fast commercialization of Free Software and acceptance
of Free Software by the companies and venture capitalists of the booming
new economy. As a means to this end, they made a conscious decision to
leave aside all long-term issues (such as philosophy, ethics and social
effects) related to Free Software, feeling these posed obstacles in the
way of rapid acceptance by economy. They proposed to focus on technical
advantages only.<A NAME="tex2html5"
  HREF="#foot49"><SUP>3</SUP></A></p>

<p>Often used in good faith by people who refer to what Free
Software stands for, the term ``Open Source'' - originally defined to
mean the same thing as Free Software in terms of licenses and
implementation - has seen inflationary usage. Nowadays, it is
regularly used for everything between Free Software and the highly
proprietary ``Governmental Security Program'' (GSP) by
Microsoft.<A NAME="tex2html7"
  HREF="#foot32"><SUP>4</SUP></A></p>

<br />
<b>Libre Software</b><br />
<p>
When the European Commission started dealing with
Free Software on a regular basis, they sought to avoid the ambiguity of
the English word ``Free Software'' and the misunderstandings of ``Open
Source'' alike, which led to the creation of a new term: ``Libre
Software.'' This term has proven resistant to inflationary usage and is
still used in an identical way to Free Software. So it may pose a
solution for those who fear being misunderstood when speaking
English.</p>

<br />
<h3>Development</h3>
<p>When thinking about Free Software, it should
be seen as an encompassing concept for a reliable, sustainable and
dependable information and knowledge society involving all
stakeholders.</p>

<p>The price we are paying for the predominance of the proprietary
software approach is high. Because the proprietary software paradigm
has a strong, system-inherent monopolizing tendency<A NAME="tex2html8"
HREF="#foot35"><SUP>5</SUP></A> and software permeates all areas of
economy, northern economies suffer and southern countries are given
the choice between exclusion or co-suffering in total dependence. That
is why breaking up Microsoft without a change in paradigm would not
improve the situation significantly. Free Software, on the other hand,
brings back competition while allowing cooperation among companies,
people, and governments. All of these equally available and empowering
to all the peoples.</p>

<p>While minorities remain at the mercy of large multinational companies
regarding support for their culture and language when using proprietary
software, Free Software gives them freedom to modify all software
according to their needs. Thus, Free Software also allows building a
sustainable local hard- and software industry independent from
monopolies and large multinationals. Of course cooperation with large
companies is possible and may be useful, but while dependency is the
price to pay for such cooperation in proprietary software, Free Software
provides independence.</p>

<br />
<h3>Equality</h3>
<p>The design, development and use of software is
increasing in all societies. Increasingly, access to software is largely
determining our capabilities for education, communication, work and even
social networking. This includes building social movements, promoting
citizenship and transparent democracy as well as general governmental
and health services.</p>

<p>Software in general has grown into northern
societies to a very large extent and if development policies are
successful, this will also be true for southern societies at some point
in time. Therefore software must be considered a cultural technique,
sometimes even a cultural good.</p>

<p>For all central cultural techniques,
we have to ask who should be put in control of it. Proprietary software
puts large northern multinationals in control.<A NAME="tex2html9"
  HREF="#foot37"><SUP>6</SUP></A> Free Software makes this cultural technique
equally available to all the peoples.</p>

<br />
<h3>Human Rights</h3>
<p>For those who are connected - and we surely
hope this will mean all the peoples at some point - human rights of
participation in culture, freedom of speech and opinion are influenced
to a large extent by their control over the software they use, as are
freedom of association and movement. Software forms the medium. Unlike
the proprietary approach, Free Software gives each person full control
about their personal information space. Although this alone is not
sufficient to grant privacy and security, it is a necessary
prerequisite.</p>

<br />
<h3>Preventing Technocracy - upholding democracy</h3>
<p>Legislation
should be developed by democratically elected representatives in a
transparent way. Even in situations where this is true, rights that
cannot be exercised remain empty. Granting rights on paper does not mean
people will have the means of exercising them.</p>

<p>The complexity of
modern systems alone makes it a difficult task to uphold democracy in
the digital domain, but the overall intransparency of proprietary
software makes it impossible.  Unless you are using Free Software, the
rights you can or cannot exercise are determined by the proprietary
software vendor - it is the vendors decision alone, a decision that
nowadays is often given precendence over the democratic legislative
process.</p>

<p>Good examples are the European Copyright Directive (EUCD) and
Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), both implementations of the
`The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Copyright
Treaty'' (December 1996). While the DMCA already gained notoriety for
enabling censorship of Scientology-critical sites in the United
States, <A NAME="tex2html10" HREF="#foot50"><SUP>7</SUP></A>the German
implementation of the EUCD is silently making the right to fair use
inaccessible. Although laws clearly state that customers have the
right to copy a CD for their car stereo or even a friend, those who
exercise this right on so-called ``copy protected'' CDs or on any DVD
now risk punishment. And if you think this is where it ends, feel free
to read the EFF paper on so-called ``Trusted Computing'' (TC).<A
NAME="tex2html12" HREF="#foot51"><SUP>8</SUP></A></p>

<p>Proprietary software effectively puts an area that was previously
governed by democratically elected representatives into the hand of
corporations, therefore establishing technocracy.<A NAME="tex2html14"
  HREF="#foot42"><SUP>9</SUP></A></p>


<br />
<h3>Summary</h3>
<p>All of our hard work to defend and promote human
rights, gender equality, rights of the disadvantaged, a free media,
privacy and security, digital solidarity and other issues is in danger
of having been for naught if the information age is based on proprietary
software.</p>

<p>Free Software alone is certainly not enough to overcome all
problems - but it is a necessity to empower people to exercise the
rights we are fighting for in the information societies.</p>

<br />
<br />
<hr />

<DL />
<DT /><A NAME="foot47">...
no. 6</A><A NAME="foot47"
 HREF="#tex2html1"><SUP>1</SUP></A>
<DD /><TT><A NAME="tex2html2"
  HREF="http://www.gnu.org/bulletins/bull6.html">http://www.gnu.org/bulletins/bull6.html</A></TT><br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot48">... define</A><A NAME="foot48"
 HREF="#tex2html3"><SUP>2</SUP></A>
<DD />For
the full definition, please see
<TT><A NAME="tex2html4"
  HREF="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html</A></TT><br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot49">... only.</A><A NAME="foot49"
 HREF="#tex2html5"><SUP>3</SUP></A>
<DD />For reference, see
<TT><A NAME="tex2html6"
  HREF="http://www.opensource.org/advocacy/faq.html">http://www.opensource.org/advocacy/faq.html</A></TT>: <EM>How is ''open
source'' related to ''free software''?  The Open Source Initiative is a
marketing program for free software. It's a pitch for ''free software''
on solid pragmatic grounds rather than ideological tub-thumping. The
winning substance has not changed, the losing attitude and symbolism
have.</EM> <br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot32">...
Microsoft.</A><A NAME="foot32"
 HREF="#tex2html7"><SUP>4</SUP></A>
<DD />In this program governments and intergovernmental
organizations pay substantial fees for a superficial look at some parts
of Windows sourcecode in special Microsoft facilities. This may increase
``felt security'' but is essentially useless - especially since they do
not even know whether what they looked at is what they have on their
computers. And of course it does not give them freedom.<br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot35">... tendency</A><A NAME="foot35"
 HREF="#tex2html8"><SUP>5</SUP></A>
<DD />Explanation of these
mechanisms will gladly be provided, if of interest.<br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot37">... control.</A><A NAME="foot37"
 HREF="#tex2html9"><SUP>6</SUP></A>
<DD />Side note: Which
should not be understood as a good thing for people in the northern
countries. It is not.<br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot50">...
States,</A><A NAME="foot50"
 HREF="#tex2html10"><SUP>7</SUP></A>
<DD />For reference, see
<TT><A NAME="tex2html11"
  HREF="http://www-camlaw.rutgers.edu/publications/law-religion/scientology.htm">http://www-camlaw.rutgers.edu/publications/law-religion/scientology.htm</A></TT><br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot51">...
(TC).</A><A NAME="foot51"
 HREF="#tex2html12"><SUP>8</SUP></A>
<DD /><TT><A NAME="tex2html13"
  HREF="http://www.eff.org/Infra/trusted_computing/20031001_tc.php">http://www.eff.org/Infra/trusted_computing/20031001_tc.php</A></TT><br />

<DT /><A NAME="foot42">... technocracy.</A><A NAME="foot42"
 HREF="#tex2html14"><SUP>9</SUP></A>
<DD />Technocracy:
``Government by technicians or management of society by technical
experts.'' (Merriam Webster Dictionary)<br />

<br />
<br />
<hr />

<DIV ALIGN="LEFT">
<TT>
 <FONT SIZE="-1"> Permanent URL: <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/fs.html">http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/fs.html</a></FONT>
 <FONT SIZE="-1"> Date: 2003/10/29 11:56:29  Revision: 1.6 </FONT>
 <FONT SIZE="-1"> Author: <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a></FONT>
</TT>
</DIV>


<!-- End page content -->

  </body>
  <timestamp>
    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
