<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<center>
<h1>World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</h1>
</center>

<p>The World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) is a UN
conference organised by the ITU at which important cornerstones for
the information and knowledge society should be laid. The FSF Europe
is participating along with other civil societies to make sure that
the principles of the digital age are not determined by media industry
and governments alone and that human rights will not be technically
invalidated.</p>

<h3>Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG)</h3>

<p>As a result of the first phase of the WSIS, a <a target="_blank"
href="http://www.wgig.org">United Nations Working Group on Internet
Governance</a> (WGIG) has been established by Mr. Kofi Annan with
Mr. Markus Kummer as Executive Coordinator.</p>

<p>This working group was meant to be an inclusive exercise and
generally makes claims to be well-representing "all stakeholders."
However: Free Software, the base of the internet, was apparently
deliberately excluded at the onset of the group. As a result, while
Free Software is found on the <a
href="http://www.wgig.org/docs/inventory-issues.pdf"
target="_blank">list of issues</a>, there is no Free Software group
(organisation, project or company) represented in the WGIG.</p>

<p>The first exercise of the WGIG was to publish a set of <a
href="http://www.wgig.org/working-papers.html" target="_blank">issue
papers</a> about various issues on February 1st, 2005 -- allowing for
a period of 10 days to submit comments on 20 papers that have been
drafted for months.</p>

<p>In close cooperation with its <a href="/associates/">associate</a>
organisation <a href="http://www.vialibre.org.ar/">La Fundación
Vía Libre</a>, the Free Software Foundation Europe managed to at least
comment on two of the most important ones -- although the other papers
certainly also would have needed commenting.</p>

<ul>
<li>Comments on <b>Cyber security, cybercrime</b> working paper<br />
This paper could be considered a cybercrime itself. It asks to outlaw,
among other things, hacking, the art of finding elegant solutions to
non-obvious problems -- in other words: innovation. It also promotes
censorship and asks to take steps against anything that could be
considered pornographic material.<br />
<a href="WGIG-WP-Cybercrime-Comments.pdf">[Read more (PDF)]</a>
</li>
<br />
<li>Comments on <b>Intellectual Property Rights</b> working paper<br />
In this paper, the WGIG blindly promotes the ideology of
monopolisation of knowledge to an extent where it asks to "balance
human rights with these interests." In other words, it asks for the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) to become negotiable
material; also putting the WGIG in direct confrontation with the WSIS
Declaration of Principles, which reaffirmed the UDHR and also served
as the basis for the establishment of the WGIG.<br />
<a href="WGIG-WP-IPR-Comments.pdf">[Read more (PDF)]</a>
</li>
</ul>

<p>The others papers were of similar quality. Unrelated to our
activities, Mr. Karl Auerbach, Former North American Elected Director,
ICANN, for instance made the <a
href="http://www.wgig.org/docs/Comment-Auerbach.pdf"
target="_blank">general comments</a> on all papers that
</p><ul>
<p><em>
"Too little attention to general principles to shape the discussion and
too much focus on easy descriptions of technology."
</em></p>
<p><em>
"Unquestioning acceptance of the technological status quo as if it
were a limitation of what could be in the future. For example, one
paper blindly accepts the very unproven assertion that there may be
but one DNS root as if that were fact despite years of continuous
successful actual operational experience to the contrary."
</em></p>
</ul><p>
More comments can be found <a
href="http://www.wgig.org/Comments-Papers.html"
target="_blank">here</a>.</p>

<p>Together with its friends, associates and cooperation partners,
FSFE will continue to follow the process, even though the chances for
useful results should be considered with some scepticism.</p>

<h3>Documents</h3>

<ul> 

<li><a href="/projects/wsis/wsis-and-software.html">WSIS and the Software Challenge</a>
<ul>Article by Georg Greve about the role of Free Software in the digital world and FSFE's involvement in the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li>Statement: <a href="/projects/wipo/statement-20050721.en.html">FSFE statement</a> on behalf of the <a href="/projects/wsis/">WSIS</a> <a href="http://www.wsis-pct.org">Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks (PCT) Working Group</a> of Civil Society at the third <a href="http://www.wipo.int/meetings/en/details.jsp?meeting_id=8487" target="_blank">Inter-Sessional, Inter-Governmental Meeting (IIM) on a Development Agenda</a>, 21 July 2005</li><br />

<li>Towards a <a href="/documents/wiwo.html">"World Intellectual Wealth
Organisation"</a>. <ul>Supporting the Geneva Decleration.</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="/documents/iprip.html">On "Intellectual Property" and
Indigenous Peoples</a><ul> Essay by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
Greve</a> about questions raised for Indigenous Peoples by the
"intellectual property" ideology.</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="issues.html">Fighting intellectual poverty</a><br /> (Who
owns and controls the information societies?)<ul>Article by <a
href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> for a publication of the <a
href="http://www.boell.de">Heinrich Böll Foundation</a> on the World
Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="cs-benchmarks.html">CS Essential Benchmarks for
WSIS</a><ul>Civil Society essential benchmarks (previously
non-negotiables) for the World Summit on the Information Society
(WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="fs.html">Free Software and WSIS</a><ul>Civil Society
reference paper on Free Software and its impact on the World Summit on
the Information Society (WSIS).</ul></li><br />

<li><a href="ps-20030923.html">Civil Society Statement for WSIS
Plenary (Geneva, September 23rd 2003)</a><ul>Georg C. F. Greve on behalf of
Patents, Copyright, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group</ul></li><br />

</ul>


<h3>Debriefings</h3>

<ul>

<li><a href="debriefing-geneva.html">Debriefing for the Summit in
Geneva</a> (Geneva, December 10-12 2003)<br /> 
<ul>by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a>, president of the 
FSF Europe, who took part as co-coordinator of the Civil Society
working group on Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks (PCT), chair of
European Caucus and Civil Society representative of German CS
coordination circle in the German governmental delegation.</ul>
</li><br />

<li><a href="debriefing-paris.html">Debriefing for the intersessional meeting</a> (Paris, July 15-18 2003)<br />
<ul>by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg C. F. Greve</a>, president of the 
FSF Europe, who attended this meeting as the representative of the WSIS coordination
circle of the German civil society as part of the German governmental delegation.</ul>
</li><br />

<li><em>Past Event: <a href="event-03-12-10.html">"Free Software, Free Society"</a></em><br />
<em>(December 10th, 2003, 17:00 - 20:00)</em><ul>
Event of the Patents, Copyright, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group: Listen
to and meet leading global experts on what is an essential building
block for an empowering, sustainable and inclusive information
society.
</ul></li><br />

</ul>

<h3>Mailing Lists</h3>
<ul>

 <li>Civil Societies WSIS European Caucus Coordination List
<ul>
<code><a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/wsis-euc">http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/wsis-euc</a></code><br />
Coordination list of the European Civil Societies Caucus for the
World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).<br />
Open to all civil societies/people interested in creating and
maintaining an interface with the European governments/governance and specifically the EU that will
allow information exchange and better cooperation.
</ul>
</li><br />

 <li>Civil Societies WSIS Patents, Copyright and Trademarks (PCT) Working Group Coordination List
<ul>
<code><a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/wsis-pct">http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/wsis-pct</a></code><br />
Coordination list for civil societies involved/interested in the World
Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) process.<br />
Open to all civil societies/people interested in working on issues related
to the questions around Patents, Copyright and Trademarks (PCTs).
</ul>
</li>


</ul>

<h3>More Information</h3>

<ul>

<li>Official WSIS homepage<ul><code><a href="http://www.wsis.org">http://www.wsis.org</a></code></ul></li><br />

<li>Civil Society Caucuses, working groups and coordination spaces<ul><code><a href="http://www.wsis-cs.org/caucuses.html">http://www.wsis-cs.org/caucuses.html</a></code></ul></li><br />

<li>General information by other civil societies:
<ul>
 <code><a href="http://www.worldsummit2003.de">http://www.worldsummit2003.de</a></code><br />
 <code><a href="http://www.wsis-cs.org">http://www.wsis-cs.org</a></code><br />
 <code><a href="http://www.prepcom.net">http://www.prepcom.net</a></code><br />
</ul>
</li><br />

<li>Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks Working Group web page<ul><code><a href="http://www.wsis-pct.org">http://www.wsis-pct.org</a></code></ul></li><br />

</ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
