<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
  <head>
    <title>WSIS and the Software Challenge</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<h1>WSIS and the Software Challenge</h1>
<h3><a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/about/greve/index.de.html">Georg C.F. Greve</a><br />Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE), President
</h3>
</center>

<br />

<h3>Introduction: The role of software in our digital world</h3>

<p>Software is codified power in the digital domain. In other words -- to
quote Stanford Professor Lawrence Lessig -- Code is a regulator that
governs cyberspace in ways similar to Law governing the real world.</p>

<p>In the Northern world, most people are already depending upon software
for very basic tasks of communication, education and work. The grade
of dependency is generally lower in the Southern world today. But if
the digital literacy and inclusion projects show the intended effect,
the dependency will be as high, potentially even higher, as many areas
aim to skip the intermediate steps of analog infrastructure and
directly enter the digital world.</p>

<p>Much of this interaction with and dependency upon software remains
unreflected and in fact unnoticed -- fulfilling a prediction that
Professor Weizenbaum of MIT made many years ago. Unless sitting in
front of a physical machine explicitly marked as "Computer", the
majority of users will often remain unaware of using software. A
common example for this are mobile phones. With the trend towards
ambient computing, this effect is likely to increase.</p>

<p>While access to software determines our ability to participate in a
digital society and governs our ability for communication, education
and work, software itself represents a reservoir of codified skill.</p>

<p>Software allows humankind to collectively refine and exercise sets of
codified skills that most of the individuals do not possess.</p>

<p>An example are graphical applications, which in the scope of complex
image editing make complex mathematical transformations like Fast
Fourier Transformation (FFT) available to everyone capable of
understanding the applications' menu symbols.</p>

<p>While the issues of software are centrally connected to many of the
issues discussed during the World Summit on the Information Society,
the lack of awareness on all sides for software as the cultural
technique of the digital age often complicated the situation.</p>


<h3>Clash of the software models</h3>

<p>While most governments often see software from a purely economic
perspective, some large industrial players have begun understanding
the amount of political power embedded in it. By propertizing the
software, they gain almost absolute control over the users -- be they
private people, other companies or governments -- and the rules these
have to obey.</p>

<p>Proprietary software always remains under control of the licensor of
the software, not the user. And in a networked world, that control can
even be remotely exercised -- independent of whether the user of the
software is an individual or a government.</p>

<p>That dependency on proprietary software is infectious.</p>

<p>Protocols are kept secret, standards are being broken. These protocols
are not secret because they are valuable, they draw their value from
being secret. The company Microsoft poses a very good example for both
cases, as the <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/ms-vs-eu/">European
Commission antitrust case</a> and the <a href="http://www.nwfusion.com/news/2000/0511kerberos.html">modification of the Kerberos standard</a>
 have shown.</p>

<p>The countermodel to proprietary software is based on breaking that
dependency and putting an equal amount of power into the hands of all
people. It is defined by four fundamental freedoms: the freedom of
unlimited use for any purpose, the freedom to study, the freedom to
modify and the freedom to distribute the software both in original and
modified form.</p>

<p>The original name for this model is <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/documents/freesoftware.en.html">Free Software</a>. It is sometimes
also referred to as &quot;Open Source&quot;, a marketing synonym proposed in
1998 to attract venture capital that is frequently abused these days
to sell proprietary software under the guise of Free Software.</p>

<p>Other synonyms frequently encountered are "FOSS" -- for "Free and Open
Source Software" -- and "FLOSS" -- for "Free, Libre and Open Source
Software" -- which, besides being redundant terms, seek to spread the
ideology that software should not be seen as a political issue.</p>

<p>As all these are synonyms and in the interest of clarity, this paper
is using the original term, Free Software.</p>


<h3>Free Software at WSIS</h3>

<p>The Free Software groups became truly <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/debriefing-paris.de.html">involved in the WSIS during the
Intersessional Meeting in Paris in July 2003</a>. At this point, the
proprietary software advocates had almost succeeded in eliminating the
political issues around software from the documents by portraying them
as a purely technical choice of software development.</p>

<p>Within Civil Society, software issues were part of the <a href="http://www.wsis-pct.org">Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks (PCT) Working Group</a>, which centrally
dealt with all issues around <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/issues.en.html">intellectual poverty as well as equal and
inclusive access to software, the digital cultural technique</a>.</p>

<p>In a concerted effort between the PCT working group and a handful of
governments, most notably Brazil, it was possible to put an end to
further erosion of software issues from the documents and revert the
trend.</p>

<p>This positive trend continued in the following Preparatory Committee
Conferences, during which Free Software and Patents, Copyrights and
Trademarks (PCT) were among the most controversial issues.</p>

<p>While there was still a dialog going on within Civil Society to
explain the <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/fs.en.html">connection of Free Software to other fundamental issues of
Civil Society during the WSIS</a>, in a motion coordinated by the PCT
working group, global Civil Society took a strong position for the
WSIS to take a clear position on the software issue in general and
Free Software in particular:</p>

<p class="indent">
  &quot;Software is the medium of and structuring entity for the digital
  domain. The information age will rest upon it. Having been denounced
  as a technical development model, Free Software is much more than
  that. It is a paradigm that secures equal chances and freedom for
  governments, economy and civil society alike. It provides a truly
  sustainable model for all areas of society, bringing back
  competition and furthering innovation for a prosperous and inclusive
  information and knowledge society for all.&quot; [<a name="ref1" href="#1">1</a>]
</p>

<p>and later chose Free Software as one of its essential benchmarks:</p>

<p class="indent">
  &quot;Software is the cultural technique of the digital age and access to
  it determines who may participate in a digital world.  Free Software
  with its freedoms of use for any purpose, studying, modification and
  redistribution is an essential building block for an empowering,
  sustainable and inclusive information society. No software model
  should be forbidden or negatively regulated, but Free Software
  should be promoted for its unique social, educational, scientific,
  political and economic benefits and opportunities.&quot; [<a name="ref2" href="#2">2</a>]
</p>

<p>Despite the massive presence of proprietary software support from both
industry and several governments, in particular the United States and
several European Union states, such as the UK, this made it impossible
to deny the political consequences and impact of software.</p>

<p>In the finally adopted version, both the Declaration of Principles and
the Plan of Action have adopted the denomination of 'software model'
and the Plan of Action asks all governments to &quot;Encourage research and
promote awareness among all stakeholders of the possibilities offered
by different software models, [...]&quot; [<a name="ref3" href="#3">3</a>]</p>


<h3>After WSIS</h3>

<p>Free Software gained much political visibility during WSIS, but while
Civil Society has adopted it widely as a principle, many organisations
still use proprietary software themselves. The effect of this practice
on developing countries has never been subject of deep research, but
seeral consequences are to be expected.</p>

<p>The psychological damage of organisations telling others to follow
policies that they ignore themselves can be considerable. Especially
in Southern countries, this can easily create the impression of a
policy trying to satisfy people with breadcrumbs while keeping the
more valuable things to themselves. That would be tragic, as the
opposite is indeed true.</p>

<p>More severely, by showing to use proprietary software themselves or
even advocating use of proprietary software in Southern countries,
organisations can involuntarily destroy the effect of their work.</p>

<p>While trying to rid Southern countries from dependency on the North
and strengthening democracy, they do the opposite. To gain a seeming
short-term improvement of the situation, they create strong mid-term
dependencies for participation in the Information Society.</p>

<p>That is why Sergio Amadeu da Silveira, president of the National
Information Technology Institute (ITI) in Brasil likened the
proprietary software model to that of drug dealers -- the first shot
is gratis.</p>

<p>So while much progress has been made, there is still need for further
development on all sides: Governments, Industry and Civil Society. As
is already inherent in the Declaration of Principles and the Plan of
Action, all sides will need to develop a practice of evaluating the
political, social and economic side of software along with its
technological capabilities.</p>

<p>To uphold their political independence and democratic basis,
Governments will need to make deliberate efforts to further economic
and social empowerment based on commercial and non-commercial Free
Software. To protect their commercial interests, Industry based on and
active in Free Software will need to provide a counterweight to
proprietary software voices. And to maintain its credibility, Civil
Society will need to consistently use Free Software as well as
advocate it.</p>


<h3>References:</h3>
<p class="footnote">[<a name="1" href="#ref1">1</a>] http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/ps-20030923.en.html</p>
<p class="footnote">[<a name="2" href="#ref2">2</a>] http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/cs-benchmarks-03-11-14.en.html</p>
<p class="footnote">[<a name="3" href="#ref3">3</a>] http://fsfeurope.org/projects/wsis/debriefing-geneva.en.html</p>


<!-- <DIV ALIGN="LEFT">
<TT>
 <FONT SIZE="-1"> Date: 2005/11/15 15:00:00  Revision: 1.0 </FONT><br />
 <FONT SIZE="-1"> Author: <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a></FONT>
</TT>
</DIV> -->

<!-- End page content -->

  </body>
  
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
