<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html>
  <version>1</version>
  <head>
    <title>Why Your Phone Isn’t as Free as Your PC - Free Your Android!</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p id="category">
      <a href="/activities/android/android.html">Free Your Android</a>
    </p>
    <h1 id="why-your-phone-isnt-as-free-as-your-pc">Why your phone isn’t as
free as your PC</h1>
    <p>In the Free Software community, we often point out that phones are
also regular computers, just smaller. This is technically true, but if
you’ve ever tried to install a free operating system on your phone, you
know it’s far more difficult than doing the same on a PC. Why is this?
The answer lies not in fundamental technological differences, but in a
combination of business decisions, lack of standardisation, and
deliberately locked down ecosystems. That’s the root cause of problems
around software freedom on phones.</p>
    <p>This article examines the specific barriers that make smartphones
resistant to software freedom, even though the underlying technology
could support it. Let’s walk through what makes your PC relatively free
and your phone decidedly less so.</p>
    <h2 id="how-the-pc-stumbled-into-freedom">How the PC stumbled into
freedom</h2>
    <h3 id="your-device-your-rules-for-the-boot-process">Your device, your
rules for the boot process</h3>
    <p>One big difference between PCs and phones is who controls the boot
process. On PCs, the answer is mostly “you”; on phones, the answer is
usually “the manufacturer (plus the OS vendor, carriers, modem vendors,
and a whole range of other gatekeepers).”</p>
    <p>Very early on, the PC became a device that can be modified by its
owner, and also a range of so-called IBM clones made standardisation
necessary. This also affected the boot process. The fundamental freedom
of the PC starts the moment you press the power button. Your typical PC
firmware (BIOS or UEFI) presents you with a menu in which you can choose
your boot device, whether it’s a hard disk, USB stick, or even a network
location. The firmware doesn’t care about the operating system. If the
disk has a valid bootloader, the firmware will try to boot it.</p>
    <p>Even when Secure Boot is enabled, the PC world has maintained user
control. You can disable it completely, enrol your own cryptographic
keys, or use distributions that use keys the firmware already trusts.
The default design philosophy is simple: “Here’s a machine. You decide
what to boot.” It’s not perfect, but it’s flexible enough that different
operating systems can coexist without begging each vendor for
permission.</p>
    <h3 id="standards-the-boring-miracle-behind-user-freedom">Standards: The
boring miracle behind user freedom</h3>
    <p>The same factors that required standardisation around the boot
process, also required standardisation around other components. Over the
years, the PC managed to advance these standards and develop new ones.
Inside your PC, you’ll find components following those long-established
standards. The CPU is almost always x86_64. The buses are PCI, PCIe,
USB, SATA, or NVMe. Graphics cards, network adapters, sound cards, and
so on, all present themselves through these standard buses with standard
identification schemes. This standardisation creates two enormous
advantages for software freedom.</p>
    <p>First, a single kernel image can boot on thousands of different
machines. The Linux kernel and other free kernels don’t need to know
about every specific motherboard. The firmware exposes which devices are
present through standard mechanisms like ACPI. Drivers are written
against stable abstractions (PCI IDs, USB device classes, ACPI methods).
A “generic” kernel often just works.</p>
    <p>Many hardware vendors often contribute their drivers upstream or at
least publish specifications. These drivers then live in the mainline
Linux kernel, shipped by every distribution. Even proprietary drivers
follow relatively standard installation patterns. The result is
typically a simple, freedom-respecting workflow: download an ISO, write
it to USB, boot, install, and you’re done. That workflow exists because
the platform is broadly standardised and designed for user control.</p>
    <h2 id="smartphones-the-dark-corner-of-software-freedom">Smartphones:
The dark corner of software freedom</h2>
    <p>Now let’s talk about smartphones. Technically, inside you’ll find an
ARM System-on-Chip (SoC), a cellular modem, a GPU, an image signal
processor, DSPs for audio and “AI” acceleration, and a constellation of
other components. Nothing about ARM or SoCs inherently prevents freedom
as illustrated by the Raspberry Pi. But the way phones are engineered
and shipped enables a host of restrictions.</p>
    <h3 id="the-cryptographic-cage">The cryptographic cage</h3>
    <p>A phone’s boot path starts with a piece of code burned into the SoC
at the factory. This code is called the Boot ROM. This ROM has the
manufacturer’s public keys literally fused into the chip’s hardware. It
then loads primary bootloaders, which must be signed by the
manufacturer. The Boot ROM refuses to run anything lacking the correct
signature. These primary bootloaders load the Android bootloader,
fastboot mode, and eventually the kernel and each stage enforces
signature checks on the next.</p>
    <p>While this is in principle a good security model, the critical
reality is: your device will refuse to boot arbitrary code unless the
manufacturer gives you a way to unlock the bootloader, install your own
keys, or disable verification. Some vendors offer an “OEM unlock”
option. Others don’t offer it at all, require online account approval,
impose time limits, or simply stop offering unlock codes for new models
or specific regions. Unlike PCs, where Secure Boot is roughly a security
feature you control, on phones verified boot is often a control feature
you may or may not be allowed to bypass.</p>
    <p>Manufacturers sometimes invoke regulatory requirements as
justification for this lockdown. The EU’s Radio Equipment Directive from
2014, for instance, was designed to ensure radio compliance. Yet some
manufacturers like Samsung have cited it to justify disabling bootloader
unlocking. This interpretation is disputed by legal experts and
contradicted by the continued availability of unlockable, compliant
smartphones. The directive appears to have been convenient cover for
business decisions manufacturers would make regardless, particularly
since the EU’s broader right-to-repair policies push in the opposite
direction toward user control and device longevity. You legally own the
hardware, but you don’t own the root of trust. The manufacturer decides
what code is allowed to run first and thereby controls everything that
follows.</p>
    <h3 id="a-thousand-slightly-different-phones">A thousand slightly
different phones</h3>
    <p>For PCs, you can think “x86 plus PCI plus ACPI” and you’re 80% of the
way to booting a generic kernel. For phones, every model is almost its
own unique piece of hardware. There are different SoC vendors with
different specifications, each phone has a different board layout,
different power management wiring, different combinations of sensors,
touchscreen controllers, cameras, modems, power management ICs, and
fingerprint readers. In addition, the glue logic connecting them is
often undocumented.</p>
    <p>Even phones built on the same SoC can differ so dramatically that
they need separate kernel configurations, unique device trees, and
model-specific patches. Instead of one ISO that boots everywhere, you
get into a situation where each phone needs a tailored kernel, device
tree, and userspace stack, often forked from a vendor’s tree. That’s why
there’s no generic phone distribution you can put on an SD card and
expect to boot on a random device.</p>
    <h3 id="trapped-in-time-the-vendor-kernel-problem">Trapped in time: the
vendor kernel problem</h3>
    <p>Under the GPL, phone manufacturers must release their kernel source,
and they usually do. What you get, however, is often a Frankenstein’s
monster: a heavily patched fork of an ancient kernel loaded with
board-specific hacks, out-of-tree drivers, and binary blobs awkwardly
glued into the build. The code comes with minimal documentation, little
upstreaming to mainline Linux, and no long-term maintenance.</p>
    <p>Porting that device to a modern, mainline kernel becomes
archaeological work. You must reverse-engineer hardware behaviour from
incomplete vendor code, re-implement drivers correctly against current
kernel APIs, and deal with proprietary firmware blobs that expect the
old kernel environment. On PCs, you rarely think about any of this
because the kernel already supports the hardware through upstream
drivers. On phones, the community must recover that support after the
fact, essentially redoing the vendor’s job properly.</p>
    <p>This is why many Android distributions can ship newer Android
versions on a phone but still remain tied to the ancient vendor kernel
that shipped with it. From a software freedom perspective, you might be
running free userspace software on top of a fossilised, vendor-locked
kernel stack. That means it’s free in theory, but compromised and full
of critical security vulnerabilities in practice.</p>
    <p>The situation has recently gotten worse. In June 2025, Google
released Android 16 but intentionally omitted Pixel device trees and
driver binaries from the Android Open Source Project. Instead of
supporting Pixel phones as the reference implementation of Android,
Google now targets “Cuttlefish”, a virtual device that runs on PCs. This
forces developers of other Android distributions to reverse-engineer
changes from prebuilt binaries rather than using Google’s publicly
available configurations. Later that same year, Google partially
reversed its decision and released preliminary device trees for their
devices, but the direction still stays the same: It’s a deliberate move
away from transparency, making freedom harder to achieve even on
Google’s own hardware.</p>
    <h3 id="binary-blob-nightmares">Binary blob nightmares</h3>
    <p>While PCs certainly require proprietary firmware for some components,
smartphones take this to another dimension entirely. Critical parts of
your phone depend on a web of proprietary components.</p>
    <p>The GPU drivers are often proprietary, deeply integrated into
Android’s Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL), its memory allocation
systems, and specific kernel interfaces. The camera system is even
worse: it may seem like phone cameras have gotten really good, but the
hardware improvements are not that big at all; the actual magic of
taking a beautiful picture in low light lives in firmware and
proprietary libraries, often deeply integrated with the vendor’s camera
stack. Try using the camera on another OS and you’ll quickly discover
that the hardware can technically take photos, but without those blobs,
they’ll look terrible.</p>
    <p>Then there are the DSPs for audio processing that are exposed through
opaque APIs and firmware blobs. And finally, the cellular modem, almost
universally non-free, often running on a separate chip, interacting with
the main CPU over shared memory or high-speed interconnects.</p>
    <p>You can build systems that isolate the modem more strongly, but
mainstream phones are not designed that way. The result: if you want
hardware acceleration, a usable camera, decent battery life, and working
cellular connectivity, you often end up depending on a stack of
proprietary components that are undocumented, not meant to be reused
outside the vendor’s Android build, and sometimes explicitly locked to
specific kernel versions.</p>
    <p>For anyone trying to run a fully free GNU+Linux distribution, this is
a nightmare. You either accept the blobs and mimic Android’s
environment, you rewrite huge chunks of functionality, or you simply
live without major features that make the phone a phone. This is why
these approaches typically have working wifi, but no camera support, or
vice versa.</p>
    <h3 id="firmware-the-frozen-core-of-your-phone">Firmware: the frozen
core of your phone</h3>
    <p>Even if you successfully install a free operating system, there’s a
deeper problem that becomes apparent over time: device firmware. Beyond
the drivers and blobs we’ve discussed, your phone contains firmware for
critical subsystems such as bootloaders, radio components, and power
management. This firmware must be cryptographically signed by the
manufacturer to be accepted by the hardware.</p>
    <p>Here’s the catch: when manufacturers stop supporting a device, the
private keys used to sign firmware never get released. This means that
even with a thriving community maintaining your specific OS, critical
firmware components become frozen in time. You can update your operating
system, but the underlying firmware remains locked at whatever version
the manufacturer last provided.</p>
    <p>The EU’s Ecodesign and Energy Labelling Regulations adopted in 2023,
which came into force in 2025, now obligate device manufacturers to
provide at least five years of software updates. Some manufacturers have
responded by promising up to eight years of support. But without a
change in how firmware-signing keys are handled for end-of-life devices,
there’s no complete path to prolonging device life indefinitely. Your
phone becomes e-waste not because the hardware failed, but because the
manufacturer decided to stop signing updates.</p>
    <h2 id="how-airwaves-chain-your-phone">How airwaves chain your
phone</h2>
    <p>Phones are radio devices, subject to strict government regulations
worldwide. Vendors are under intense pressure to ensure the modem
behaves within spectrum rules, that emergency calling works reliably,
and that lawful interception hooks are present where legally
required.</p>
    <p>Instead of designing systems where the main CPU runs a fully free
operating system and communicates with a well-specified but separate
modem module, the industry largely went with highly integrated SoCs. The
baseband processor is very capable, deeply closed, and often has more
hardware privileges than the application CPU. This architecture is
partly for performance and power efficiency, partly a deliberate
decision to prevent users from interacting with the radio stack.</p>
    <p>The security implications of this design are serious. Security
researchers have repeatedly found vulnerabilities in baseband
processors, some of which are severe enough to be called backdoors. A
developer working on Replicant, a free software build of Android,
discovered a disturbing example in Samsung Galaxy devices: the
proprietary software running on the application processor would allow
the baseband processor to perform remote file operations on the
filesystem. This behaviour can be classified as a backdoor.</p>
    <p>This isn’t theoretical. The baseband is a powerful, opaque computer
within your computer, running unauditable code with privileged access to
your system. From a freedom standpoint, this architecture pushes vendors
to lock down more of the system. It makes it nearly impossible to argue
for a design where users can freely replace the entire operating system
while still having a certified, legally compliant radio. The modem
becomes both a technical necessity and a convenient excuse for
control.</p>
    <h2 id="integrity-scores-and-invisible-handcuffs">Integrity scores and
invisible handcuffs</h2>
    <p>In addition to the problems with the hardware, the software ecosystem
actively fights back as well. Banking apps, streaming services,
contactless payment systems, and corporate mobile device management all
rely on verified boot, hardware-backed key storage in secure execution
environments (TrustZone), and device integrity APIs like Google’s Play
Integrity, SafetyNet, or OEM-specific equivalents.</p>
    <p>Google’s Play Integrity API deserves particular attention. Marketed
as a security enhancement, it allows developers to verify that an app is
running unmodified, installed through Google Play, and executing on a
“genuine Android device.” For developers, enabling this check is easy,
perhaps too easy, as many may not fully understand the implications. For
users of custom Android builds, the consequences are severe.</p>
    <p>If you unlock your bootloader or install a different Android
distribution, Play Integrity checks often fail. You lose access to apps
entirely or lose features such as NFC payments, video streaming, or even
the all-important banking app access. The system can detect whether your
operating system is “Play Protect certified,” a process requiring
manufacturers to ship Google’s proprietary apps and pass compatibility
testing. Operating systems with advanced security features may fail
these checks despite being more secure than stock Android. This shows
that security is not actually the criterion, compliance is.</p>
    <p>This creates powerful social and economic pressure to keep devices as
the manufacturer provides them. You can change the software, but say
goodbye to essential services. On a PC we are used to installing
whatever operating system we want and then installing applications
without any central authority deciding whether our system is allowed to
connect to our bank. The smartphone world has normalised the opposite:
constant surveillance of your software stack, with punishment for those
who dare to exercise control over their own devices. Ownership is taken
away, for a false promise of security.</p>
    <h2 id="a-tale-of-two-computers">A tale of two computers</h2>
    <p>The contrasts crystallise into a clear pattern. PCs have boot chains
usually controllable through BIOS/UEFI menus where you can toggle Secure
Boot. Phones have boot chains cryptographically locked from the ROM
onward, with unlocking at the manufacturer’s mercy. PCs have
standardised hardware where one kernel and distribution image supports
many devices. Phones are highly fragmented, with each device needing its
own kernel build and device tree.</p>
    <p>On PCs, a large portion of drivers are upstream in mainline Linux,
with vendors often cooperating or at least documenting the basics. On
phones, essential drivers are vendor forks or binary blobs tied to
specific kernel and userspace combinations. PCs have no central app
gatekeeper enforcing a specific OS or integrity score. Phones have an
ecosystem where important applications and services depend on
attestation that actively punishes software freedom.</p>
    <p>The cellular modem issue looms over everything: closed baseband
firmware with deep integration into the system, regulatory requirements
that give vendors legal cover for lockdown and potential backdoors, and
an industry with no interest in changing course.</p>
    <h2 id="what-this-means-for-your-freedom">What this means for your
freedom</h2>
    <p>If you care about software freedom, the practical consequences are
stark. On a PC, you can usually start with a generic free operating
system such as Debian, Arch, Fedora, or dozens of others and expect it
to work on most machines. On a phone, you must choose hardware
explicitly with freedom in mind: an unlockable bootloader, good progress
on mainline kernel support, documented components, or at least
cooperative vendors.</p>
    <p>Even then, you face trade-offs. You may need to accept some
proprietary firmware, incomplete hardware support, or the loss of
certain locked-down services. Developers of free Android distributions
and GNU+Linux distributions on phones are doing immensely important work
to bring true software freedom to mobile devices. Some hardware projects
are building phones designed for freedom from the ground up. But they’re
fighting against economies of scale, network effects, and the
concentrated power of a few vendors who control the mobile
ecosystem.</p>
    <p>The gap isn’t about raw computing power or architecture. Both PCs and
phones have powerful processors, ample memory, and sophisticated
operating systems. The gap is about who holds the keys to the boot
chain, how standardised the platform is, and whether the ecosystem
assumes that you, the user, are in charge or a threat to be
controlled.</p>
    <p>Your PC is more free not because it’s inherently superior technology,
but because decades ago, the industry made different choices. The fight
for mobile freedom is about bringing those same principles of user
control, standardisation, and transparency to the computers we carry in
our pockets. Every unlocked bootloader, every mainlined device driver,
and every free software phone project brings us closer. The dream of
user control is still alive; it’s simply waiting for us to claim it on
our phones.</p>
  </body>
  <description>If your phone is just a computer, then why is it so much harder to install
		  Free Software on it? Learn about the differences between your phone and your
		  PC and how these differences affect your freedom.</description>
  <legal type="cc-license">
    <license>http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/</license>
  </legal>
</html>
