<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software in Charites and NPOs</title>
    <meta name="under-construction" content="true" />
  </head>

 <body>
 
  <h1>Charites and NPOs</h1>

	<div id="introduction">

  <p>...</p>
  
	</div>
  
<h2>10 reasons for charities to use Free Software</h2>

<h3>1. Save administration costs</h3>

<p>Fines,  audits, leases, license 
certificates and complicated 
restrictions will be things of the past.</p>

<h3>2. Discover the meaning of security</h3>

<p>GNU/Linux is used by the the largest national security organisations and the majority of the world's servers for good reason: it's unbeatable security.</p>

<h3>3. Stop worrying about liability exposure</h3>

<p>Your right to use Free Software 
however you wish is legally protected,   
permanent and inalienable.</p>

<h3>4. Slash your hardware costs</h3>

<p>When efficient software makes your 
PCs live longer, you pay less for 
hardware and the environment wins.</p>

<h3>5. Use a familiar and intuitive 
interface</h3>

<p>Tens of millions of teachers, 
administrators,  students and 
professionals use GNU/Linux every 
day, contributing to a desktop 
that makes sense, and is 
easy to use.</p>

<h3>6. Expand infrastructure with zero licensing costs</h3>

<p>No matter how much your 
organisation expands, licencing costs 
will never restrict your growth.</p>

<h3>7. In house training is easier than ever</h3>

<p>Millions of reusable learning 
resources pervade the Internet. 
Unparalleled access to relevant 
information keeps training costs low.</p>

<h3>8. Experience true interoperability</h3>

<p>Cross platform applications read and write your documents, spreadsheets, databases, and key files on all major platforms thanks to widely supported Open Standards.</p>

<h3>9. Upgrade when you choose</h3>

<p>Nobody can tell you when to update 
or change your software. Upgrade 
when it makes sense for your 
organisation.</p>

<h3>10. Total control over your 
computing</h3>

<p>Every bit of Free Software can be 
modified, distributed and redeployed 
by you or any organisation you 
choose. Wave vendor lock-in goodbye.</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-08-05 15:36:02 +0200 (Thu, 05 Aug 2010) $ $Author: maelle $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
