<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Example Questions for Election</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/elections/askyourcandidates/askyourcandidates.html">Ask your candidates</a></p>
	  
	  <h1>Example Questions from Germany</h1>

    <p class="question">
    <strong>1.a.</strong>Do you plan to promote the use of Free Software? If so, how will
      you do this?
    </p>

    <p class="question">
    <strong>1.b.</strong>Do you plan to promote the interests of small and medium sized
      Free Software companies; and so, how?
    </p>

    <p class="question">
    <strong>2. </strong>Non-Free Software is only modifiable with the
      permission of its owner. This restriction had led to service monopolies and
      vendor lock-in in both the public and private sector. Do you plan to act
      against existing service monopolies of this nature?
    </p>
    
    <p class="question">
    <strong>3.a. </strong>Strict adherence to Open Standards in public sector
      ICT enables fairer competition amongst tenderers. Do you agree with the
      Free Software Foundation Europe's <a
        href="/freesoftware/standards/def.html">Definition of Open Standards</a>?  
    </p>

    <p class="question">
    <strong>3.b. </strong>Will you work to achieve strict adherence to Open Standards in
      the public sector? If so, how do you plan to do this?
    </p>
   
    <p class="question">
    <strong>4.a. </strong>Is your party planing to promote the usage of Free Software in
      state education?
    </p>

    <p class="question">
    <strong>4.b. </strong>Does your party intend to promote the teaching of transferable
      ICT skills, rather than product or vendor specific knowledge?
    </p>
   
    <p class="question"> 
    <strong>5. </strong>Many public sector organisations <a
        href="/activities/pdfreaders/buglist.html#DE">advertise non-Free
        Software</a> on their websites, such as promotions for 'Adobe Reader'.
      What is your opinion on this kind of advertising, and do you have any plans
      concerning it?  
    </p>

    <p class="question"> 
    <strong>6.a. </strong>In Germany software is covered by copyright law and,
      like literature, is therefore unpatentable. Nevertheless, patents on
      software continue to be granted by patent offices. The technology
      monopolies that these patents result in lead to legal uncertainty for
      software companies and hamper innovation in all European companies.  What
      is your position on software patents?
    </p>

     <p class="question"> 
     <strong>6.b. </strong>How will you prevent them from threatening the growth of Germany's
       economy?
     </p>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
