<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/projects/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | <a 
              href="/projects/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | Further Reading]
      </center>

    <h2>Documents</h2>

    <p>These documents explain how software patents will influence very different areas
       of society and economy.</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>January 3rd, 2005</b>: 
        "Software patents are bad for your health"<br />
        <a href="letter-20050103.html">Open letter to Mr. Lee, General Secretary of the World Health Organisation (WHO)</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>December 6th, 2004</b>: 
        " Software patents detrimental to European power supply business"<br />
        <a href="letter-20041206.html">Open letter to
            Mr. Haider, President of the Union of the Electricity Industry -
            EURELECTRIC</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>November 1st, 2004</b>: 
        " Firefighting with petrol"<br />
        <a href="letter-20041101.html">Open letter to
            Mr. Barroso</a> by <a
          href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>October 4th, 2004</b>:
        "Allianz Group will suffer because of software patents"<br />
        <a href="letter-20041004.html">Open letter to Mr.
            Diekmann, CEO of Allianz Group</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg
          Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>September 6th, 2004</b>: 
        "No software patents, conserve competitive advantage!"<br />
        <a href="letter-20040906.html">Open letter to
            the Dutch Prime Minister Dr. Balkenende</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>August 2nd, 2004</b>: 
        "Software patents will destroy the foundations of IBM's future"<br />
        <a href="letter-20040802.html">Open letter to Dr.
            Wladawsky-Berger of IBM</a> by <a
          href="/about/maffulli/">Stefano Maffulli</a> and <a
          href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>July 6th, 2004</b>: 
        "Open Letter to the Fraunhofer Gesellschaft (FhG)"<br />
        <a href="letter-20040706.html">Open letter to Prof.
            Bullinger</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>May 31st, 2004</b>: 
        "Open letter to Prof. Köhler on software patents"<br />
        <a href="letter-20040531.html">Open letter to Prof.
            Köhler, designated German President</a> by
        <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a>
      </li>
      <br />
      <li>
        <b>May 10th, 2004</b>: 
        "Open letter to all citizens of Europe"<br />
        <a href="letter-20040510.html">Open letter</a> by
        <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a> and Hartmut Pilch
      </li>
      <br />


    </ul>

    <h2>Links</h2>

    <p>These organisations and pages contain more information about
    software patents.</p>

    <ul>
        <li><a href="http://swpat.ffii.org">http://swpat.ffii.org</a>:
        Here can find detailed information on various issues related to
        software patents on the web page of our <a
            href="/associates/">associate organisation</a>, the <a
            href="http://www.ffii.org" target="_blank">FFII</a>.</li>
        <li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/savingeurope.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/savingeurope.html</a></li>
        <li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/patent-reform-is-not-enough.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/patent-reform-is-not-enough.html</a></li>
        <li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fighting-software-patents.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fighting-software-patents.html</a></li>
        <li><a href="http://www.linux.it/GNU/nemici/brevetti.en.shtml">http://www.linux.it/GNU/nemici/brevetti.en.shtml</a></li>
        <li><a href="http://thankpoland.info/">http://thankpoland.info/</a></li>
        <li><a href="http://www.stop-swpat.de">http://www.stop-swpat.de</a></li>
    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
