<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1></center>
      <p>
      Software patents for Europe are currently being pushed forward
      actively by a lobby gathering around the European patent office and
      the Business Software Alliance (BSA), which represents the interests
      of the large U.S. companies. Software patents are a menace to society
      and economy and the FSF Europe is actively involved in the resistance
      against such plans.</p>
    <ul>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/patents.html">What are patents?</a></li>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/swpatents.html">What are software patents?</a></li>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/whowants.html">But why would anyone want them?</a></li>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/epo.html">The European Patent Office (EPO)</a></li>
    </ul>
    <h2>The European Patent Office (EPO)</h2>

    <p>Another group that benefits from software patents are patent lawyers,
        because patent lawyers are needed to apply for a patent, to grant a
        patent and to contest a patent in court. From their perspective,
        software patents offer an area of almost unlimited patentability
        without the need for development or research.</p>

    <p>One of the places where patent lawyers are found is of course the
        European Patent Office (EPO), which has prepared the ground for the
        introduction of software patents by granting roughly 30,000 software
        patents -- acting clearly outside its mandate and disregarding the
        European Patent Convention from 1973. </p>

    <p>Since patent lawyers are also found in many ministries across Europe and
        not wanting to step on the toes of the EPO, several European
        politicians are now trying to legitimize these patents by declaring
        these to be "computer implemented inventions."</p>

    <p>That is why the directive in question is called the directive on
        "patentability of computer implemented inventions."</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
