<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - FSFE Envisions a Software Patent Free Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">Software Patents</a>

    <h1>FSFE Envisions a Software Patent Free Europe</h1>

    <p class="background">
      FSFE is working toward a world where software does what software users
      want it to do.  For this, software users must be able to participate in
      the development and distribution of the software.  Patents block this
      goal by adding legal and financial risks to software development and
      distribution and by giving the patent holders legal power to completely
      prohibit software developers from using the patented ideas.
    </p>

	<h2>Software patents are harmful</h2>

    <p>
      Software patents are particularly harmful when they cover an idea that is
      needed for compatibility.  If patents are granted on communication
      protocols or word processor document formats, software developers can be
      completely prohibited from writing useful word processors or network
      communication software.
    </p>

	<h2>Software patents hinder innovation</h2>
    
    <p>
      It has also been argued that software patents harm society economically
      and in terms of innovation.  These arguments have been made by the German
      Monopolkommission, Boston University School of Law, Deutsche Bank
      Research, Price Waterhouse Coopers, the US Federal Trade Commission and
      Nobel Prize winning economist Eric S. Masking.
    </p>

	<h2>What happened?</h2>
    
    <p>
      In 1998, an EU Directive proposed to make software ideas patentable. This
      proposal was opposed by FSFE and the Free Software community as well as
      many other groups.  In June 2005, it was rejected by the European
      Parliament. A large consortium of partners opposing this directive was
      possible because software patents hinder all software development: free,
      proprietary, commercial, and non-commercial.
    </p>

	<h2>What is the current situation?</h2>
    
    <p>
      Today, the European Patent Convention say that software ideas are not
      patentable.  However, the European Patent Office have been granting
      thousands of software patents every year.  Thanks to the European
      Parliament rejection, software patents are still unenforceable in Europe,
      and when challanged in court, the courts have usually declared the
      patents to be invalid, in line with current legislation.
    </p>
    
    <p>
	  FSFE's current focus is to ensure that the national courts are not
	  removed from their current role.  This is currently threatened by certain
	  versions of proprosals such as the Community Patent and the European
	  Patent Litigation Agreement (EPLA) which could create a central European
	  patent court, controlled by the European Patent Office.
    </p>

	<h2>Please support FSFE</h2>

    <p>
      Please support FSFE in our work to ensure that future changes to Europe's
      patent system respect Free Software users, developers, distributors, and
      businesses.
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Talstraße 110, 40217 Düsseldorf, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
      http://fsfe.org/projects/swpat/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
