<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE envisions a future without software patents</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">Software Patents</a>

    <h1>FSFE envisions a future without software patents</h1>

    <p class="background">
      FSFE is working towards a world where software does what users want it to do. Software patents create legal and financial risks that block most people from being able to safely participate in software development and distribution. Software patents, thus, are a real threat to users freedom, innovation and the whole Free Software community.
    </p>

	<h2>What are software patents?</h2>

    <p>
      Patents are monopoly rights, granted by the state to the creator of a technical invention. When applied to software, patents block the idea behind a program and prohibits others from writing or distributing a similar program.  Unlike copyright, patents do not restrict the use of an expression or the code itself. Instead, patents restrict the use of certain ideas - in case of software these ideas consist of algorithms and mathematics. 
    </p>

	<h2>Status quo in Europe</h2>
    
    <p>
     Despite the fact that the European Patent Convention excludes software from being  patentable, the European Patent Office (EPO) has granted tens of thousands of software patents in the past years. Lobbyists are working hard to retroactively prove these invalid patents to be legal. In the past decade, European Commission proposed a Software Patent Directive [0], which was rejected 2005 by the European Parliament - thanks to an engaged Free Software community.  
    </p>

	<h2>Forcing software to be incompatible</h2>
    
    <p>
   Software patents are used to prevent others from achieving compatibility or interoperability, notably in the area of standardisation. By blocking interoperability, a patent can be used to make competition impossible and to prevent developers from writing code to offer equivalent software under better licence terms, such as Free Software licences.
    </p>

	<h2>Software patents hinder innovation</h2>
    
    <p>
      The harm to software innovation has been shown in various studies, for example by Nobel Prize winning economist Eric S. Masking.  The reason is that software development is incremental:  To write a useful software package, you build your work of innovative features on top of old features. If the use of old features is restricted by patents, you are blocked in innovation.
    </p>

	<h2>Patents are unlike Copyright</h2>
    
    <p>
	  Patents are completely unlike copyright.  To avoid someone's copyright, you just have to ignore  their software.  But you cannot ignore patents.  Patent restrictions apply to your work, even if you are not aware of the patent.
    </p>

	<h2>Patent wars encourage monopolies</h2>

    <p>
      The biggest software companies hold the biggest software patent-portfolios to keep competitors out of their market. A large consortium of partners opposing the European Software Patent Directive [0] was possible, because software patents hinder all kinds of software development: free and proprietary, commercial and non-commercial.
    </p>

	<h2>Current threats: the unitary patent proposals</h2>

<p>The European Commission is working on a unitary patent system for the European Union. This system includes enforcement of the European Patent Office (EPO) with an unchecked power to decide upon the grant and validity of patents. Plans also include the creation of a central European patent court with patent lawyers as judges. Given an unchecked power of the EPO with a new pro-patent court, software patents would most likely become enforceable.</p>

	<h2>FSFE's work</h2>

<p>FSFE’s current focus is twofold: ensuring that the national courts are not removed from their current role, and ensuring that the legislation continues to exclude software from patentability.</p>
<p><em>[0] Proposal for a Directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions. (COM 2002/92)</em></p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Talstraße 110, 40217 Düsseldorf, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
      http://fsfe.org/projects/swpat/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-04-13 16:23:26 +0200 (Tue, 13 Apr 2010) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
