<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>
        Software patents harm banks - 2 February 2005
    </title>
  </head>

<body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/projects/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | <a 
              href="/projects/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | <a
              href="/projects/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
      </center>

      <br />

      <center> Open Letter 
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041004.html">2004-10-04</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041101.html">2004-11-01</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041206.html">2004-12-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050103.html">2005-01-03</a>]
                      [2005-02-07]
      </center>

    <h2>
        Software patents harm banks
    </h2>
  
    <h3>2 February 2005</h3>
  
    <p>"Basel II is a round of deliberations by central bankers from around the
    world, under the auspices of the International Bank of Settlements in
    Basel, Switzerland, aimed at producing uniformity in the way banks and
    banking regulators approach risk management across national borders."
    <a name="ref1" href="#fn1"><sup>1</sup></a> Mr Nout Wellink is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and
    President of the International Bank Settlements.</p>

    <p>Dear Mr. Wellink,</p>

    <p>in our open letter <a name="ref2" href="#fn2"><sup>2</sup></a> to the head of the Allianz insurance group,
        Mr. Diekmann, we explained how software patents <a name="ref3" href="#fn3"><sup>3</sup></a> are likely to
    become a massive cost and risk factor for all money and information
    technology intensive businesses like insurance companies. The same holds
    true for banks.</p>

    <p>Software patents establish monopolies on abstract ideas which are
    available to anyone, including those who do no software development but
    do have legal departments. Like all larger software projects, all parts
    of Basel II consist of a multitude of ideas, each of which may become
    subject to a monopoly by anyone. If you for instance check the database
    of the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), you will already discover
    180 patents <a name="ref4" href="#fn4"><sup>4</sup></a> on software ideas concerning "credit risk" -- the
    central issue of Basel II.</p>

    <p>There is no compulsory licensing for any of these, the particular
    patent holder gets to determine the terms on which they will grant or
    deny use of the monopoly on each individual idea. </p>

    <p>But the implementations of Basel II will naturally also depend upon a
    multitude of standard components, such as file services, databases,
    transfer protocols and more. Each of these is similarly subject to
    software patents. Since the number of methods to secure computer
    systems is limited, this may mean that Basel II will have to implement
    its features on a known insecure basis.</p>

    <p>Once Basel II becomes widely used, a dramatic increase in software
    patent infringement lawsuits for this area is likely to occur on a
    global basis. Any bank or any of its customers for Basel II based
    software may become target of such legal action -- the risk is
    incalculable and can bring about multi-billion Euro lawsuits.</p>

    <p>Most banks are still unaware of this threat -- they have not realized
    that software patents will affect them to such an extent. When
    we were recently talking to a German bank, they were shocked when they
    realized what software patents will mean to their business.</p>

    <p>Software patents will dramatically reduce the innovation rate and
    competitiveness of European economy in general, and to you they mean
    introducing an incalculable risk that can generate huge damages. </p>

    <p>That is why we ask you to protect your interests and take initiatives
    against software patents -- directly and by supporting our work. Also,
    should you have further questions, please do not hesitate to get in
    touch. </p>

    <p>Best regards,</p>
    <p>
      <a href="/about/greve/index.en.html">Georg Greve</a><br />
      President<br />
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
      <a href="/index.en.html">www.fsfeurope.org</a>
    </p>

    <p>
        <a name="fn1" href="#ref1"><sup>1</sup></a>
        <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basel_II">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basel_II</a> <br />
        <a name="fn2" href="#ref2"><sup>2</sup></a>
        <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/swpat/letter-20041004.en.html">http://fsfeurope.org/projects/swpat/letter-20041004.en.html</a> <br />
        <a name="fn3" href="#ref3"><sup>3</sup>
        </a><a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/swpat/swpat.en.html">http://fsfeurope.org/projects/swpat/swpat.en.html</a> <br />
        <a name="fn4" href="#ref4"><sup>4</sup></a>
        <a href="http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&amp;Sect2=HITOFF&amp;p=1&amp;u=%2Fnetahtml%2Fsearch-bool.html&amp;r=0&amp;f=S&amp;l=50&amp;TERM1=%22credit+risk%22&amp;FIELD1=&amp;co1=AND&amp;TERM2=&amp;FIELD2=&amp;d=ptxt">http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&amp;Sect2=HITOFF&amp;p=1&amp;u=%2Fnetahtml%2Fsearch-bool.html&amp;r=0&amp;f=S&amp;l=50&amp;TERM1=%22credit+risk%22&amp;FIELD1=&amp;co1=AND&amp;TERM2=&amp;FIELD2=&amp;d=ptxt</a> <br />
    </p>
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
