<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1></center>
      <p>
      Software patents for Europe are currently being pushed forward
      actively by a lobby gathering around the European patent office and
      the Business Software Alliance (BSA), which represents the interests
      of the large U.S. companies. Software patents are a menace to society
      and economy and the FSF Europe is actively involved in the resistance
      against such plans.</p>
    <ul>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/patents.html">What are patents?</a></li>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/swpatents.html">What are software patents?</a></li>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/whowants.html">But why would anyone want them?</a></li>
        <li><a href="projects/swpat/epo.html">The European Patent Office (EPO)</a></li>
    </ul>
    <h2>What are patents?</h2>

    <p>The idea of patents goes back to the medieval monarchs who conferred
        rights and privileges in the form of open letters (latin "litterae
        patentes") bearing their royal seal. Such patents on procedures to make
        glass, for instance, were commonly granted on the basis that this skill
        be taught to others.</p>

    <p>Later, democratic governments took the place of monarchs, but the basic
        idea remained the same: a limited monopoly was granted for a certain
        invention or process in exchanged for making that invention or process
        public. That way others could learn from it and further develop new
        inventions and processes.</p>

     <p>The underlying principle of patents and their justification is that
         they are monopolies which are granted by society for the sake of
         benefitting society.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
