<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>

      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/projects/swpat/patents.html">What are patents?</a> | <a 
              href="/projects/swpat/swpatents.html">What are software patents?</a> | <a 
              href="/projects/swpat/whowants.html">Why would anyone want them?</a>]<br />
          [<a href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">Current Status</a> | <a
              href="/projects/swpat/documents.html">Documents</a> | <a
              href="/projects/swpat/links.html">Links</a>]
      </center>

    <h2>What are software patents?</h2>

    <p>Software itself is implemented logic. Consequently, software patents are
        monopolies granted on implemented logic. It is important to understand
        that such monopolies are not on the implementation itself, which is
        covered by Copyright, but on the underlying logic of the
        implementation.</p>

    <p>Therefore, a software patent manifests a monopoly on specific calcuation
        methods, which makes mathematical laws, logical rules and business
        processes property of companies, effectively disappropriating society
        of its grown knowledge.</p>

    <p>The effects of this can be dramatic. Not only does every program
        literally embed thousands of ideas that could be subject to software
        patents: While patents in other fields normally don't reach far outside
        the field they were granted in, software patents affect all areas and
        applications of software equally.</p>

    <p>Since software itself is increasingly becoming a determining factor,
        software patents have an incredible reach and more or less cover all
        areas of economy and society.</p>

    <p>Software patents are affecting the Electricity Industry as much as they
        affect Insurance Companies. They harm IT companies like IBM and
        research institutes like Fraunhofer. They are even bad for health.</p>

    <p>For good reason did the European Patent Convention (published 1973)
        explicitly state that the field of programs for computers, i.e.
        software, is excluded from patentability.</p>

    <p>Software patents are harmful to innovation, economy and society, so they
        lack justification.</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
