<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
  <p id="category"><a href="/projects/work.html">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>

<div id="introduction">

    <p>
      We are working towards a world where software does what software users
      want it to do. For this, software users must be able to participate in
      the development and distribution of the software. Software patents block
      this goal by adding legal and financial risks to software development and
      distribution and by giving the patent holders legal power to completely
      prohibit software developers from using the patented ideas.
    </p>
</div>


  <h2 id="status">Current status</h2>

<p>
  The future of software patents in Europe is uncertain. The Software Patent
  Directive was rejected by the European Parliament on the 6th of July 2005,
  after seven years of campaigning by people in FSFE and other organisations -
  most notably, one of our associate organisations, <a
    href="http://www.ffii.org/">FFII</a>.  This was a monumental victory and
  displays the legislative competence of the Free Software community.  However,
  the struggle is not over.  Information about the current status of software
  patents in the EU can be found in this November 2007 blog entry: <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=115">Do software patents exist in the
    EU?</a> 
</p>

<p>
  The software patent issue is likely to return via initiatives such as the
  Community Patent or the European Patent Litigation Agreement (EPLA).  The
  details of how these initiatives could introduce software patents are
  described in this August 2006 blog entry: <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=49">The Future of the Patents
    Battle</a>.  FSFE continues to work on this.  
</p>


  <h2 id="actions">Selected FSFE actions</h2>

  <!--
  <p>From 2004 to 2005 we wrote open letters about software patents addressed
  to <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040510.html">all citizens of Europe</a>,
  <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040531.en.html">the German President Prof.
    Köhler</a>, <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040706.en.html">Fraunhofer
    Gesellschaft (FhG)</a>, 
  <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040802.en.html">IBM</a>, <a
    href="/projects/swpat/letter-20040906.en.html">the Dutch prime
    minister</a>, <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041004.en.html">Allianz
    Group</a>, <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041101.en.html">Mr
    Barroso</a>, <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20041206.en.html">President of
    the European electricity industry Hans Haider</a>, 
  <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050103.en.html">Mr LEE Jong-wook</a>, <a
    href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050207.en.html">Nout Wellink is the Chairman
    of the Board of Directors and President of the International Bank
    Settlements</a>, <a
    href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050307.en.html">Catherine Parmentier Chief
    Executive Officer of EUROCITIES</a>, <a
    href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050405.en.html">Mr Provoost president of
    EICTA</a>, 
  <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050502.en.html">Charlie McCreevy</a>, and
  <a href="/projects/swpat/letter-20050606.en.html">Josep Borrell Fontelles,
    President of the European Parliament</a>.</p> 
  -->

  <ul>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/projects/ipred2/ipred2.html"> 2007-present: IPRED2
        - The Criminalisation Directive</a></strong> A proposal has been made
    by the European Commission to criminalise and increase the penalties and
    invasive investigative measures for patents, copyrights, trademarks, and
    all other laws lumped together by the term "<a
      href="documents/iprip.html">Intellectual Property</a>".  It looks like
    patents will now be excluded from this directive, but the legislative
    process is still ongoing and there are many other harmful aspects of this
    directive that must be corrected.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/projects/gplv3/gplv3.html">2006-2007: Version 3 of
        the GNU GPL</a></strong>: During the 18 month public consultation for
    the drafting of GPLv3, FSFE worked to assist community participation.
    Among other benefits, GPLv3 offers better protection for free software
    developers against patent litigation.  Our licences can only solve a small
    part of the harm of software patents, but they can make free software
    development easy in some ways.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=49">
        2006-July-12th: Participation in EC hearing</a>:</strong> Ciaran
    O'Riordan represented and made a statement on behalf of FSFE at this
    hearing organised by the European Commission on the future of the patent
    system.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/projects/swpat/fsfe-patstrat-response.html">
        2006-March-31st: Response submitted to EC patent
        questionnaire</a></strong>: FSFE has submitted its response to the
    European Commission's questionnaire titled "On the patent system in
    Europe".</p></li>

    <li><p><strong>2005-July-6th: Software Patent Directive Dropped</strong>:
    After years of struggle, the European Parliament finally rejected the
    software patent directive with 648 of 680 votes.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/projects/swpat/second-reading-bullets.html">
        2005-July-1st: Bullet Points on the Second Reading</a></strong>: One
    week before the second reading vote by the European Parliament, FSFE sent a
    simplified explanation of the core areas of confusion.  This was delivered
    in six languages which were produced on short notice by the FSFE
    translation team. </p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/projects/swpat/memorandum.html"> 2005-June-28th:
        Karlsruhe Memorandum</a></strong>: The Free Software Foundation Europe
    has published, on June 28th 2005, the Karlsruhe Memorandum against software
    patents. This memorandum collected more than 200 signatures at this year's
    GNU/LinuxTag conference in Karlsruhe.  Citing scientific evidence, the text
    argues that software patents in Europe will hurt jobs and innovation. Among
    the supporters are leaders of some of Europe's biggest trade union groups.
    All MEPs received a copy of this.</p></li>

  </ul>

    <h2 id="about">About the problem</h2>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe is actively working against
      the introduction of software patents in Europe.  Software
      patents create the following problems.
    </p>
    
    <ul>

      <li>Add legal risks, and therefore costs, to software development</li>

      <li>Specifically inhibit the development of useful software by
      blocking compatibility and interoperability</li>

      <li>Patents are incompatible with software because software is
      so complex - too many ideas are used for it to be practical to
      count them and check them against existing patents</li>

    </ul> 

    <p>
      To understand how patents work, it is important to realise that
      they have almost nothing in common with copyright.  While
      Copyright is granted on the the work of an author, such as a
      computer program, patents are granted on ideas that could be
      used inside a computer program.  So when thinking of Patents,
      think of "symphony combining wind and string instruments" and
      not "Beethoven's 2nd symphony."
    </p>

    <p>
      For background information about patents, software patents, and
      the difference between patents and copyright please read
      <a href="/projects/swpat/background.html">our background
      page</a>.
    </p>



   	<h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  
    <ul>
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/swpat/background.html">Basic information</a></h3>
        <p>
          What are patents, what are software patents, and why would anyone want them? 
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/swpat/documents.html">Background documents</a></h3>
        <p>
          How do software patents influence very different areas of society and economy?
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://en.swpat.org">End Software Patents</a></h3>
        <p>
          Goal of this website is to build an information resource for campaigns against software patents worldwide.
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Transcripts#patents">Software patents presentations</a></h3>
        <p>
          List of transcripts, such as Richard Stallman's 2004 talk: <a
            href="http://www.ifso.ie/documents/rms-2004-05-24.html">The Dangers
            of Software Patents</a>
        </p>
      </li>

  	</ul>
   
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
