<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Donations to the FSFE</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Donations to the FSFE</h1>
     
    <p id="introduction">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe is a non-profit non-governmental
      organisation. Our work is made possible by a community of
      <a href="/contribute/">volunteers</a>,
      <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellows</a> and
      <a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a>. Your donations are critical
      to our strength and autonomy — they enable us to continue fighting for
      Free Software wherever necessary, and to be an independent voice.
    </p>

    <h2>Categories</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        Donate more than EUR 500 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 6000 in a year and
        you'll become a
        <strong><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html#patron">Patron</a></strong>
        of the FSFE.
      </li>
      <li>
        Donate more than EUR 100 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 1200 in a year and
        you'll become a
        <strong><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html#sustainingcontributor">Sustaining Contributor</a></strong>
        of the FSFE.
      </li>
      <li>
        Donate more than EUR 50 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 600 in a year and you'll
        become a
        <strong><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html#contributor">Contributor</a></strong>
        of the FSFE.
      </li>
      <li>
        Donate more than EUR 10 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 120 in a year and
        you'll become a
        <strong><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html#supporter">Supporter</a></strong>
        of the FSFE.
      </li>
      <li>
        Donate less than EUR 10 every month <em>OR</em> EUR 120 is of course
        also possible. Or as an individual support us by
        <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">joining the Fellowship</a>
        (minimum amount 60 EUR a year).
      </li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Ways of donating</h2>

    <h3>Bank account</h3>

    <p>
      Generally, donations can be wired from anywhere in the world to the
      following account:
    </p>

    <p class="indent">
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
      IBAN: DE69 3602 0030 0003 0047 32<br/>
      National-Bank Essen, Steinstraße 13, 40212 Dusseldorf, Germany<br/>
      SWIFT/BIC: NBAG DE3E<br/>
    </p>

    <p>
      If you live in one of the following countries, please follow the link to see more detailed information on how to donate.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="/donate/germany.html">Germany</a>: Tax-deductable donations are possible</li>
      <li><a href="donate-2007-ch.html">Switzerland</a>: Tax-deductable donations are possible</li>
    </ul>

    <h3>Credit card and PayPal</h3>

    <p>
      For users who find paying by credit card more convenient, we also provide
      a facility to pay by PayPal.  Please remember that FSFE has to pay fees
      of  1.9% in addition to a flat fee of $0.30 USD for each donation
      received by this method.
    </p>

    <p>
      Please select how much you wish to contribute, and press "donate":
    </p>

    <!-- more options under https://www.paypal.com/en_US/pdf/integration_guide.pdf page 123 -->

    <form action="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr" method="post" class="indent">
      <p>
        <input type="hidden" name="cmd" value="_xclick"/>
        <input type="hidden" name="business" value="paypal@fsfeurope.org"/>
        <input type="hidden" name="image_url" value="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/login/images/fsfe_logo_w150.png"/>
      </p>
      <!-- here you can add the amount -->
      <table>
        <tr>
          <td/>
          <td><input type="text" name="amount" value="" size="5"/> EUR</td>
          <td>
            <!-- here you can add the intended purpose -->
            <input type="hidden" name="item_name" value="Donation"/>
            <input type="hidden" name="currency_code" value="EUR"/>
            <input type="hidden" name="cn" value="How do you wish to be listed on our Thank GNUs page?"/>
            <input type="hidden" name="no_note" value="0"/>
            <!-- to which site the user is piped after payment -->
            <!-- <input type="hidden" name="return" value"http://fsfe.org/donate-thank.html"> -->
            <input type="reset" name="reset" value="Clear"/>
            <input type="submit" name="submit" value="Donate"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </table>
    </form>

    <h3>Check drawn onto a US- or UK-bank</h3>

    <p>
      Please note that checks usually involve significant fees. But if you
      prefer to donate by postal check instead of the other ways, please send
      it to
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br/>
      Talstraße 110<br/>
      40217 Düsseldorf<br/>
      Germany
    </address>

    <h3>Further information</h3>

    <p>
      No matter which way you choose, please send an email to
      <a href="mailto:office@fsfeurope.org">&lt;office@fsfeurope.org&gt;</a>
      and let us know where to send the receipt and thank-you letter. We would
      like to list you on "<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">our donors</a>"
      page.  Even if you prefer to remain anonymous, please let us know how to
      reach you, so we can thank you privately.
    </p>

    <p>
      To find out the best way for your donation to reach us, if you have
      questions about different kind of donations (like bequeathals) please
      contact our office.
    </p>

    <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">Our donors</a></h3>
        <p>
          See who is already supporting us. 
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash flow</a></h3>
        <p>
          How we spent the donations.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.en.html">Sponsoring graphics</a></h3>
        <p>
          Announce your donation with our sponsoring buttons.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/com-pkg/com-pkg.html">Professional services</a></h3>
        <p>
          You want to support us in another way than a donation? Buy our professional services.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
