<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Hardware and Infrastructure Donations</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article">

    <h2>Hardware and Infrastructure Donations</h2>

    <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe would like to thank all donors of
        equipment and other infrastructure for their support -- our hardware and infrastructure is an essential
        necessity for our work. We would in particular like to thank:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <em>2011-02-23</em>: <b>Kolab Systems AG</b><br/>
        For supporting in the installation and configuration of our internal Kolab system
      </li>
      <li>
        <em>2010-11-09</em>: <b>CapeIT</b><br/>
        For providing physical servers, NAS and a tape library for backup purposes
      </li>
      <li>
        <em>2009-12-05</em>: <b>OpenIT</b><br/>
        For providing three physical servers in their datacenter, on which most
        of FSFE's services are now hosted, and for providing fast internet
        connectivity for these servers.
      </li>
	<li><em>2009-09-25</em>: <b>antilo AG</b> <br /> For the donation of a virtual server
		to run our internal VoIP Server on.</li>

	<li><em>2009-09-20</em>: <b>AMOOMA GmbH</b> <br /> For supporting us in the installation
		and initial configuration of our VoIP server.</li>

	<li><em>2009-09-01:</em>: <b>beroNet</b> <br /> For donating five VoIP
		phones to be used in the Berlin office.</li>

	<li><em>2007-03-21</em>: <b>Sun Microsystems</b> <br /> For the donation
		of one Sun Fire T1000 server (8 4-core CPUs, 16GB RAM, 2x 73GB harddisks). FSFE is running
		Fellowship and e-mail services on it.</li>

	<li><em>2006-05-20</em>: <b>Department of Informatics, University of Gothenburg, Sweden</b> <br />

            For the donation of one Dual Pentium III 1GHz machine with
	    2GB RAM and one IBM EXT300 disk cabinet with 14x 18 GB disk.</li>

        <li><em>2005-12-27</em>: <b>SAMSUNG Electronics Germany</b> <br />

            For the donation of six SAMSUNG X20 XVM 1730 V notebooks
            that are being put to good use by FSFE's crew in Hamburg,
            Gothenburg, Milano, Brussels, Frankfurt and Vienna; as well as
            the donation of one SAMSUNG Digimax V700 Digital Camera.</li>


        <li><em>2005-01-17</em>: <b>Hewlett-Packard Germany</b> <br />

            For the donation of two Compaq N2400 servers 
            (Dual CPU, Pentium III 1GHz with 1GB RAM each).
            The machines have replaced our 
            quite outdated web- and mailserver machines and
            are running core services of the Free Software
         Foundation Europe.</li>

	<li><em>2003-01-24</em>: <b>Department of Informatics, University of Gothenburg, Sweden</b> <br />

	    For the donation of one Andataco disk cabinet with 3x 18 and
	    5x 9 GB disk, one
	    Single Pentium III 600MHz machine, one Single Pentium III
	    450 MHz machine and one Dual Pentium II 450 MHz machine.</li>


    <br /><small>(list sorted by date, newest entry on top)</small>
    </ul>
  </body>
  <sidebar promo="donate">
    <h3>FSFE’s Funds</h3>
    <ul>
        <li><a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">Our donors</a></li>
        <li><a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash flow</a></li>
        <li><a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.html">Sponsoring graphics</a></li>
    </ul>
  </sidebar>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
