<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Invest in Freedom: Support FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Invest in Freedom: Support FSFE</h1>

    <p>
      FSFE has been working for the Free Software community in Europe
      and beyond since 2001.  We have received terrific amounts of
      support from our
      <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/">Fellows</a>,
      <a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">our donors</a>, FSFE's
      <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">many volunteers</a>, and the
      Free Software community at large.  Without
      <a href="/donate/thankgnus-2009.html">you</a>, we would not have been
      able to break
      <a href="/activities/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">proprietary monopolies</a>,
      <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">fight off software patents</a>, and
      <a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">build the Freedom Task Force</a> into
      Europe's foremost expert group on legal aspects of Free Software.
    </p>

    <p>
      At the same time, the threats that FSFE is fighting on your behalf
      have never gone away.  Many of us are still being forced to use
      proprietary software.  Closed standards build walls that Free
      Software finds hard to break.  Proprietary software companies
      continue to push their interests in Europe and around the world.
      The European Commission's past push for better interoperability is
      sliding into reverse.
    </p>

    <div class="actionbox">
      <p>For individuals:</p>
      <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">Donate now</a>
      <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Join the Fellowship</a>
      <p>For companies:</p>
      <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">Donate now</a>
      <a href="/com-pkg/com-pkg.html">Buy professional services</a>
    </div>

    <p>
      To help us fight those threats and keep going strong in these
      difficult economic times, FSFE is asking for your continued
      support.  Now, more than ever, is the time to push ahead for Free
      Software.  As budgets are being cut everywhere, more and more
      organisations are seriously thinking about alternatives to
      non-free programs.  There are many policy makers who have
      understood the importance of open standards.  Free Software
      businesses benefit from this climate and are growing fast.
    </p>

    <p>
      FSFE needs <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">financial</a> and
      <a href="/donate/hardware.html">infrastructure</a> donations to continue
      to operate and support the Free Software Community.  If you've been
      thinking about
      <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/login/join.php">becoming a Fellow</a>,
      today is the day!
    </p>

    <p>
      To make supporting us easier, FSFE has also
      <a href="/com-pkg/com-pkg.html">built a set of services</a> that
      companies can purchase from us.  Please check out the many ways
      that you can use to support us.  If you cannot find one that suits
      your needs,
      <a href="/contact/local.html">get in touch with us</a>, and we will
      tailor a solution for you.
    </p>

    <p>
      Thanks to your support, we've come very far together. Please walk
      with us for another step on the way to software freedom for all.
    </p>

    <p>
      <a href="/about/gerloff/gerloff.html">Karsten Gerloff</a><br/>
      President<br/>
      Free Software Foundation Europe
    </p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
