<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Thank you for your support!</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1> Thank you for your support!</h1>

    <p>
      FSFE would like to thank everyone who supported our work in 2009. Your
      contributions as volunteer, Fellow or sponsor make FSFE's work possible.
      Distributed support secures FSFE's independence, which is why every small
      contribution is important!
    </p>

    <p>
      But we also receive large contributions. Last year's top donors were the
      LinuxHotel, Black Duck Software, Intevation GmbH, freiheit.com
      technologies GmbH, and Tarent GmbH. Our sincere thanks and appreciation
      go to all of them, but two deserve a special mention.
    </p>

    <p>
      We're looking forward to
      <a href="/news/2009/news-20091118-01.html">cooking</a> with Reinhard
      Wiesemann at his LinuxHotel. As our visionary patron, he has supported
      FSFE every single month since it was created and he also was the largest
      contributor over the past year. A special mention also goes to Intevation
      GmbH, which has not only donated at patron level, but has also sponsored
      working time and expenses for FSFE co-founder Bernhard Reiter, who over
      the years has put much time, effort and knowledge into the organisation.
    </p>

    <p>
      The past year was both challenging and successful for FSFE. We have
      succeeded in something that no Free Software Foundation has attempted so
      far: A change in the organisation's leadership, with a
      <a href="/news/2009/news-20090624-01.html">new executive team</a>. The
      former president <a href="/about/greve/greve.html">Georg Greve</a> did
      splendid work in taking FSFE from its founding in 2001 to the
      internationally respected organisation that it is today, working very
      hard alongside many dedicated people. FSFE is designed to be bigger than
      any one person, and it's good to see that this design principle is
      working out in practice.
    </p>

    <p>
      In 2009, we
      <a href="/news/2009/news-20091008-01.html">battled Microsoft's monopoly
        in the browser market</a>,
      <a href="/news/2009/news-20091127-01.html">pushed hard for Open Standards
        in the European public sector</a>, and helped to launch a
      <a href="http://www.ifosslr.org/">legal review on Free Software</a>. At
      the UN level, we worked to 
      <a href="/projects/wipo/FSFE-20090501.pdf">have Open Standards and Free
        Software included [PDF]</a> in the global activities of the World
      Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO). We
      <a href="/news/2009/news-20090908-01.html">asked candidates for the German
        federal elections</a> about their positions on Free Software, and
      helped the Fellowship to launch
      <a href="http://pdfreaders.org/">pdfreaders.org</a> as a campaign for
      free PDF readers. We were also happy to welcome a new
      <a href="/contact/local.html">FSFE country team</a> in Finland. All this
      work has helped to make 2009 a good year for Free Software.
    </p>

    <p>
      The year 2010 brings many new challenges for Free Software, and a number
      of old ones still stand. In Brussels, we will push for competition, Open
      Standards and interoperability, and continue to fight proprietary
      monopolies. At the UN level, we will continue to drive the slow
      reorientation of the World Intellectual Property Organisation towards
      Open Standards and Free Software. We will make cooperation between FSFE's
      country teams more effective, and the relaunched Edu-Team will find ways
      to get more Free Software into schools and universities.
    </p>

    <p>
      We have successfully built the
      <a href="/projects/ftf/ftf.html">Freedom Task Force (FTF)</a> into
      Europe's foremost centre of Free Software legal and licensing knowledge.
      In 2010, we will use this knowledge to help both the community and
      industry to build governance models around Free Software. We are also
      making the FTF's knowledge available through our
      <a href="/projects/ftf/services.html">professional services</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      All these things are only possible because of people like you who are
      supporting FSFE by sharing their time, their resources, and their ideas.
      If there is an issue that you think FSFE should deal with, please don't
      hesitate to <a href="/contact/local.html">get in touch</a>. I invite you
      to work with us this year, and hope that we can count on your support
      also in 2010. Together, we can achieve great things for Free Software.
    </p>

    <p>
      Once again, thank you.
    </p>

    <p>
      Best regards,<br/>
      Karsten Gerloff<br/>
      President<br/>
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2007-08-10 20:50:28 +0200 (Fre, 10 Aug 2007) $ $Author: reinhard $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
