<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Our Donors</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article thank-donors">
    <h1>Our Donors</h1>

    <p id="introduction">
      We would like to thank everyone who supports our work. Your
      <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">contributions as volunteer</a>,
      <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellow</a> or sponsor make our work possible. Distributed
      support secures our independence, which is why every small contribution is important. Either
      publicly show <a href="/donate/donate.html">your donation</a> with
      <a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.html">our sponsoring graphics</a> or remain
      anonymous.
    </p>

    <localmenu id="9999" style="number">Last 12 months</localmenu>

    <h2>Gold Donors<a class="fn" id="ref-1" href="#fn-1">1</a></h2>

    <p>
      Gold donors have donated 1000 Euro or more per month, or 12,000 Euro or more in a year.
    </p>

    <dynamic-content group="gold"/>

    <h2>Silver Donors</h2>

    <p>
      Silver donors have donated 200 Euro or more per month, or 2400 Euro or more in a year.
    </p>

    <dynamic-content group="silver"/>

    <h2>Bronze Donors</h2>

    <p>
      Bronze donors have donated 40 Euro or more per month, or 480 Euro or more in a year.
    </p>

    <dynamic-content group="bronze"/>

    <h2>Further Donors</h2>

    <p>
      We also would like to thank those donors who preferred to remain anonymous, and the hundreds of
      donors and Fellows who donated smaller amounts, many of them throughout many years. Every
      financial contribution, no matter how big or small, is important for our work, and in fact,
      these numerous smaller donations make up for one third of our total funds.
    </p>

    <p>
      Hardware donations are listed on our
      <a href="hardware.html">Hardware Donation website</a>. There, you can
      also find Information on how to support us with hardware.
    </p>
    <h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>
	<ol>
	  <!-- Use the following when no donor is expected to donate more than 10% of our budget
	  <li id="fn-1">We currently do not expect any single donor to donate <a href="/about/transparency-commitment.html">more than 10%</a> of our budget for this year.<a href="#ref-1" class="ref">↩</a></li>-->
	  <!-- Use the following when a donor donates more than 10% of our budget-->
	  <li id="fn-1">Donating <a href="/about/transparency-commitment.html">more than 10%</a> of our budget for this year:
		<ul>
		  <li>Google <a href="#ref-1" class="ref">↩</a></li>
		</ul>
	  </li>
	</ol>
  </body>
  <sidebar promo="donate">
    <h3>FSFE’s Funds</h3>
    <ul>
        <li><a href="/about/funds/funds.html">Cash flow</a></li>
        <li><a href="/donate/hardware.html">Hardware donations</a></li>
        <li><a href="/about/graphics/sponsoring/sponsoring.html">Sponsoring graphics</a></li>
    </ul>
  </sidebar>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2014-01-13 17:57:48 +0100 (Mon, 13. Jän 2014) $ $Author: reinhard $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
