<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Observing WIPO - Statement at the PCPD, 23 February</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<p align="center">
[ <a href="statement-20060628.en.pdf">PDF Version (55k)</a> ]
</p>

<h2 align="center">STATEMENT BY THE</h2>
<h2 align="center">FREE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION EUROPE (FSFE)</h2>
<h2 align="center">TO THE SECOND SESSION OF THE</h2>
<h2 align="center">PROVISIONAL COMMITTEE ON PROPOSALS</h2>
<h2 align="center">RELATED TO A WIPO DEVELOPMENT AGENDA</h2>
<h3 align="center">(Geneva, 26-30 June 2006)</h3>

<p>Mr. Chairman,</p>

<p>the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) has various comments to
make in relation to the document PCDA/1/6 Prov. 2 and the discussions
that followed.</p>

<p>Regarding item B22, the FSFE is surprised to see Free Software and
Creative Commons described as activities outside the mandate and scope
of copyright. Additionally, we understood the distinguished delegate
of Mexico to have made similar remarks. As also explained also in our
''Free Software Essentials Reference'' paper, the vast majority of
Free Software is using copyright licensing for its
software.</p>

<p>Similarly, <a href="http://www.creativecommons.org">Creative
Commons</a> consists of a set of modular copyright licenses for
artistic works. We assume that it was not the intention of WIPO to
declare copyright in general outside its scope. So our recommendation
is to rephrase point B22 along the lines of <b>intensifying
activities</b> in all uses of the copyright system, including Free
Software and Creative Commons.</p>

<p>Regarding items A18 and 25 as well as C13,15,16 and 18, the Free
Software Foundation Europe would like to direct the attention of the
assembly to the difficulties of the European Commission in trying to
reestablish a competitive market in Europe vis-a-vis Microsoft. This
case provides an excellent demonstration of the difficulties
experienced by industrialised countries to limit monopoly abuse, and
why publicly available technical specifications are <b>not</b>
sufficient to maintain an Open Standard.</p>

<p>This is increasingly
being understood by legislators in several countries, such as
Denmark. In its motion B103, the Danish parliament defines an Open
Standard along three criteria.  Any such standard should be a) well
documented with its full specification publically available, b) freely
implementable without economic, political or legal limitations on
implementation and use, and c) standardized and maintained in an open
forum (a so-called standards organisation) through an open process.</p>

<p>There were various reasonings for this motion, and FSFE would like
to emphasise the second point in particular: ''It is a political task
to ensure that the use of information technology by public authorities
ensures the democratic rights of all citizens to be able to freely
receive digital information from public authorities and to be able to
freely send digital information to them. These political goals can
only be met if the public sector demands that software, that is used
in the public sector and for communication with the public sector, is
based on open standards.'' <em>(translation by <a
href="http://www.groklaw.net/article.php?story=20060602210610876">groklaw.net</a>)</em></p>

<p>In short: Open Standards are essential to stop the spread of software
dependencies from one group of users or organisation to another.</p>

<p>Mr. Chairman,</p>

<p>as the distinguished delegate of India pointed out in his statement,
Free Software is an important element of capacity building, it is the
best choice to give independence to governments, and it helps the
''common man and woman.'' We see this point as relevant in particular
to items A2, 6, 7, 11, 12, 14 and 15, also B9, 11, 27 and 28 and C1,
3, 10, 11, 12.</p>

<p>Free Software is relevant to WIPO not only in
terms of being licensed under copyright, it is also relevant in so far
as WIPO is planning to make massive use of software for many of its
Development Agenda activities, especially A11, 12, 14, B9 and
D11.</p>

<p>For all these items, should the general assembly agree
to move forward with them, Free Software and Open Standards will be
essential building blocks for WIPO in its development related
activities.</p>

<p>It is our understanding that by spurring this debate, the Development
Agenda can generally help making WIPO adapt to future challenges. It
is increasingly understood that independence of political
organisations and structures from the corporate interest of single
vendors is a critical issue for democracy.  Several political bodies
around the world have already adapted their procurement policies in
ways that will secure their independence and political mandate by
introducing preference for Free Software. FSFE believes that WIPO as
an organisation faces similar issues in all its activities, and should
take them into consideration in due time.</p>

<p>As a closing remark let me add that FSFE also considers items E7 and 8
to be central in WIPOs quest for more transparency, democracy and
all-stakeholder involvement. We therefore encourage all delegations to
offer their support to these points.</p>

<p>Thank you, Mr. Chairman.</p>

<p><em>
Statement by Mr. <a href="/about/greve/">Georg C.F. Greve</a> &lt;<a href="mailto:greve@fsfeurope.org">greve@fsfeurope.org</a>&gt;
<p div="indent">Free Software Foundation Europe, President</p>
<p div="indent">UN World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS),
<ul>
Civil Society Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group, Co-Coordinator<br />
First phase Civil Society representative, German Governmental Delegation
</ul></p>
</em></p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
