<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Observing the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<h1>World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)</h1>
</center>

<p>The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) is one of the
16 specialized agencies of the United Nations system of
organizations. Its role is administrating 23 international treates
dealing with different aspects of limited monopolies on
knowledge. </p>

<p>According to its own <a href="http://www.wipo.org">web page</a>, it
is 
<em class="indent">
"an international organization dedicated to promoting the use and
protection of works of the human spirit. These works -- intellectual
property -- are expanding the bounds of science and technology and
enriching the world of the arts. Through its work, WIPO plays an
important role in enhancing the quality and enjoyment of life, as well
as creating real wealth for nations."
</em></p>

<p>As explained in articles such as "<a
href="/projects/wsis/issues.en.html">Fighting intellectual
poverty</a>" or "<a href="/documents/iprip.en.html">On 'Intellectual
Property' and Indigenous Peoples</a>" on FSFEs web page, as well as
many others on the net, the statement above does not fit current
reality. The <a
href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
Declaration</a> states clearly how WIPO has a well-deserved reputation
for "intellectually weak, ideologically rigid, and sometimes brutally
unfair and inefficient policies."</p>

<p>For anyone involved in questions of freedom in a digital age, such
as Free Software Foundation Europe, WIPO is often at the root of
current threats, such as <a href="/projects/swpat/">software
patents</a>, the <a href="/projects/eucd/">European Copyright
Directive (EUCD)</a> and others. When these come to a European or
national level, we often find that little room for change exists.</p>

<p>Instead of working to prevent the worst for these directives one by
one, Free Software Foundation Europe is working to prevent harmful
legislation at its root, the global level, in which WIPO is one key
player.</p>

<p>For that reason, FSFE has requested observer status to WIPO in
2003, which was granted during the Assemblies of the Member States of
WIPO from September 27 to October 5, 2004.</p>

<p>Together with a global coalition of other players with similar
goals, FSFE will work to change the "World Intellectual Property
Organization" into a "<a href="/documents/wiwo.html">World
Intellectual Wealth Organisation</a>."</p>

<h3>Related</h3>

<p>For more information on this and related issues, please see:</p>
<ul>

<li>Statement in Support of the Geneva Declaration: <a
href="/documents/wiwo.html">Towards a 'World Intellectual Wealth
Organisation'</a></li>

<li>Article: <a href="/projects/wsis/issues.html">Fighting
intellectual poverty</a></li>

<li>Article: <a href="/documents/iprip.html">On 'Intellectual
Property' and Indigenous Peoples</a></li>

<li>Project page: <a href="/projects/wsis/">World Summit on the
Information Society (WSIS)</a></li>

<li>Project page: <a href="/projects/swpat/">Software Patents</a></li>

<li>Project page: <a href="/projects/eucd/">European Copyright
Directive (EUCD)</a></li>

</ul>

<!-- End page content -->

  </body>
  <timestamp>
    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
