<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Meeting with Technopole Logiciel Libre</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	Français
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>Meeting with Technopole Logiciel Libre</h2></center>

	<p /> One hundred kilometers from Paris, spawns a technopole
	unlike any other : it is dedicated to Free Software. Supported
	by the French government and closely linked to the Soisson
	university, the Technopole Logiciel Libre will nurse companies
	developing a commercial activity based on Free Software. By
	giving courses to initiate managers to the business models
	created by Free Software, the technopole will revive the
	economy devasted by the failure of the most important regional
	industries.
	
	<p /> Frédéric Couchet and Loïc Dachary went to 
	Soissons to establish a first contact between the technopole
	and the Free Software Foundation Europe. Philippe Carpentier and
	Jean-Marc Loire described the main lines of the project as follows:

	<dl>
	  <dt>Incubator</dt>
	  <dd>
	    New born companies are integrated in the incubator who
	    provides them with all they need for a very low cost but
	    during a short period (6 month). Afterwards they can enter
	    the next stage and have the benefit of a complete infrastructure
	    at low cost during the first two years. The area where the
	    technopole installs its offices is large enough to host
	    new companies under regular conditions when the nursing
	    process completed successfully.
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt>Education</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Some courses were already modified
	    at the Soisson university in order to integrate Free Software
	    and its usage to the teaching.

	    <p /> Moreover, the <a href="http://www.ecole.eu.org/">École
	      Ouverte de l'Internet</a> (Open School of the Internet)
	      provides courses to the teachers on the subject of 
	      Free Software related technologies. During our visit
	      we had a chance to see a basic system administration 
	      course given by Yves Potin under GNU/Linux. The server
	      is an original mecano-like making that will have its place
	      in a museum.

	    <p /> This activity will continue and develop when the 
	      technopole becomes active in order to raise the 
	      interest of the industry for the qualities of Free
	      Software.
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt>Companies network and legal help</dt>
	  <dd>
	    To give better chances to the new born companies of the
	    incubator, the technopole, the technopole establishes
	    contacts with companies already in the field of Free Software
	    (Mandrake, Idealx, Alcôve etc.). By identifying the skills
	    of each current player and by keeping a contact with them,
	    the technopole will provide accurate advices to the 
	    company members.

	    <p /> Free Software licenses are unusal for most entrepreneurs
	    and the technopole will also provide legal help to identify
	    possible problems and pitfalls.
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt>Promotion and communication</dt>
	  <dd>
	    The help provided to the companies by the technopole in
	    the fields of advertising and communication will give
	    a better image to the soissonais (the name of the
	    region around Soisson). Both the companies and the
	    region will gain. The technopole will be carefull
	    to bind the triple Soisson/Free Software/Companies
	    so that the success of each one profits to the two 
	    others.
	    <p />
	  </dd>
	</dl>

	<p /> We then introduced the FSF Europe and its two main goals.

	<dl>
	<dt>Complete the Free Software field</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Nowadays there does not exist Free Software for every
	    possible need. The FSF, like the FSF Europe, works to fill
	    the Free Software field so that it becomes possible to use
	    Free Software in every activity. For instance, it is now
	    hard if not impossible to use Free Software to efficiently
	    broadcast sounds and images on the networks. During the
	    last FSF Awards at the beginning of year 2001, after
	    a fruitfull and intense dialog, the École Centrale Paris
	    (Central School of Paris aka <a href="http://www.ecp.fr/">ECP</a>)
	    published under the GNU GPL license the software components of 
	    <a href="http://www.videolan.org">VideoLAN</a>, adding an
	    important contribution to the Free Software universe.

	    <p /> The role of the FSF and the FSF Europe is to encourage
	    companies and individuals to identify the wastelands of 
	    Free Software and populate them. It is often enough to
	    establish a dialog so that the author realizes that he
	    can fulfill a need or complete an existing work in the
	    Free Software universe.

	    <p /> In that sense, productive relationships could be
	    established between the Technopole Logiciel Libre and
	    FSF Europe. A practical example would be to suggest to
	    a company to work with videolan.org to improve the state
	    of the art instead of doing massive investsements in
	    non free technologies. And if this solution cannot be
	    sustained financialy, help them to identify another 
	    field (where Free Software is more mature) where 
	    their talents could be used to improve Free Software
	    on a solid economic basis.

	    <p /> Since the the Free Software universe we know today
	    originated from the FSF, companies could easily integrate
	    it with its help. Companies and individuals are hardly aware
	    that establishing relationships within the Free Software
	    community is an easy process. A company that develops its
	    business on MySQL, GNU/Linux and Perl could easily make
	    contact with the groups of individuals and companies that
	    are actively building and maintaining these tools. They
	    need noone to establish this contact but the experience
	    showed us that a natural resistance prevents this to
	    happen. The role of the FSF Europe is merely to show how
	    to establish this contact and how to maintain it. Physical
	    distances, e-mail communication, the sociology of the
	    development groups make this exercise unusual enough to
	    require a bit of help.

	    <p /> In short, establishing relationships with the 
	    Free Software community is a mandatory step that should
	    be provided in addition to the national network provided
	    by the technopole. The companies growing in the technopole
	    should be able to integrate the Free Software movement and
	    not only use it. By doing this they will reenforce their
	    foundations. As mighty as it seems, the Free Software 
	    movement is small enough and a few companies may play
	    a major role. This is an opportunity that should not
	    be missed.

	    <p />
	  </dd>

	<dt>Fight the threats to Free Software</dt>
	  <dd>
	    The laws that rule software are moving fast because this
	    science is new. Because they do not have enough information
	    the people that make the laws will possibly write them
	    in such a way that Free Software cannot exist anymore.
	    The four foundamental freedoms of Free Software are still
	    fragile:

	    <ul>
	      <li>Use for any purpose</li>
	      <li>Study from the source code</li>
	      <li>Modify</li>
	      <li>Redistribute</li>
	    </ul>

	    <p /> For instance the <a
	    href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/siae/siae.en.html">SIAE</a> law
	    in Italy imposes that every software being sold has to 
	    be registered. This registration costs money. Therefore, 
	    selling a GNU/Linux distribution (Debian for instance)
	    requires the registration of the thousands of software
	    it contains. This new law is a serious threat to the
	    freedom of redistribution and therefore is a direct
	    thread to the existence of Free Software.

	    <p /> The software patents are another kind of threat.
	    Each software is potentialy attacked by a software patent.
	    There is no way to find out if a software crosses a patent
	    or not. Should the software patents become legal in Europe,
	    it would be potentialy illegal to use, modify or redistribute
	    all existing Free Software.

	    <p /> We wish the situation to be less problematic. Since
	    it's not the case, the FSF Europe has to fight to give a
	    strong legal basis to Free Software. The task is also 
	    very important because the FSF is the author of the GNU
	    GPL licence that covers around 70% of the existing Free 
	    Software. 

	    <p /> The technopole and all the companies it will host
	    will be precious allies. The FSF Europe can provide a 
	    precise information on specific legal points and they
	    will be able to watch and act with us to build a solid
	    legal ground for Free Software. The FSF Europe is engaged
	    in the adaptation of the GNU GPL to the french legal 
	    system. We could work together on this.

	    <p />
	  </dd>
	</dl>

	<p /> The FSF Europe plays a federal role in each country,
	gathering actors of the Free Software movement so that they
	can communicate. Thanks to our presence in Sweden, France,
	Germany, Italy and soon in Switzerland, Portugal, Belgium and
	Austria, we can act at the European level. In each 
	country we are establishing relationships with non profit
	organisations that fight for Free Software since many 
	years to bring a European dimension to their action. APRIL
	in France can, for example, coordinate its efforts to translate
	the GNU GPL with german lawyers.

	<p /> It would be interesting to find out how the technopole
	and the FSF Europe can put their resources in common to build
	a network (companies and non profit organisations).

	<p /> At the end of the meeting, Jean-Marc Loire shows us the
	way back to Paris. We all have the feeling that an important
	meeting took place. On the way back we are already planing
	actions. By the time I finish this article a few are already
	engaged. They will probably be the first of a long list.

	<p />
	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p/>
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated :
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
