<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE France enters Free Software Gaming</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English | <a href="article2002-10-27-01.fr.html">Français</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>

	<center><h2>FSFE France enters Free Software Gaming</h2></center>

	<p>FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, Paris 31 October 2002</p>

	<p>
	  Nevrax, the video game company releasing NeL under the GNU
	  GPL decided to outsource the Free Software community
	  management to FSFE France. The fifteen developers working on
	  NeL at Nevrax will continue to operate under high pressure
	  to meet their deadlines while FSFE France will be in charge
	  of connecting them with the Free Software world.
	</p>

	<p>
	  NeL is an essential component of any 3D games. It provides
	  the 3D graphics engine, networking and artificial
	  intelligence that are necessary to develop multiplayer
	  online games. It ultimately intends to compete with high end
	  proprietary middlewares and largely intersects with Free
	  Software libraries such as Crystalspace or Ogre.
	</p>

	<p>
	  FSFE France first became involved in the gaming field by
	  helping with the release of Blender under the GNU GPL. "We
	  are now working to make sure games can be produced and
	  distributed in freedom." says Loïc Dachary, FSF speaker,
	  "Game developers who have the courage to endorse Free
	  Software as a moral principle should know about NeL". Since
	  it is released under the GNU GPL, it guarantees the
	  contributors and authors that it won't be abused by
	  proprietary software vendors. People are welcome to use NeL
	  and build on it as long as they are willing to participate
	  to the Free Software movement.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Nevrax's engineers have been developing NeL during the past
	  three years. The company was seduced by the Free Software
	  philosphy and acknowledged that a service based business
	  model is compatible with it. "We are about to release our
	  first game based on NeL." says Daniel Miller, Nevrax CTO,
	  "We need to rely on the FSFE France to interface between our
	  overloaded staff and the Free Software community." Nevrax
	  decided to move the NeL CVS tree and the mailing lists to
	  Savannah, the development hosting facility of the GNU
	  project, so that the Free Software community benefits from
	  an integrated contributive environment.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Those interested in improving NeL are encouraged to
	  subscribe to the NeL mailing list. For more information
	  please visit <a href="http://nongnu.org/projects/nel/">http://nongnu.org/projects/nel/</a>
	</p>

	<p>About FSFE France</p>

	<p>
	  The FSFE France is a non-profit organization dedicated to
	  all aspects of Free Software. Access to software determines
	  who may participate in a digital society. Therefore the
	  freedoms to use, copy, modify and redistribute software - as
	  described in the Free Software definition - allow equal
	  participation in the information age. Creating awareness for
	  these issues, securing Free Software politically and
	  legally, and giving people freedom by supporting development
	  of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE France.
	</p>

	<p>About Nevrax</p>

	<p>
	  Nevrax is a specialist in the development of massively
	  multi-user online worlds and a fervent believer in Free
	  Software. It currently has teams developing a leading edge
	  Free Software technology platform called NeL, and a state of
	  the art massively multiplayer online role-playing game
	  called Ryzom. Details on NeL can be found at <a
	  href="http://www.nevrax.org/">www.nevrax.org</a>. Details on
	  Ryzom can be found at <a
	  href="http://www.ryzom.com/">www.ryzom.com</a>.
	</p>
	
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
 