<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Free Japan visiting Paris</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	english
	]
      </center>

      <blockquote>
	<h2>Free Japan visiting Paris</h2>

	<p>
	  Masayuki Ida (ida@sipeb.aoyama.ac.jp) arrived in Paris
	  Saturday 6 October for a short stay. He was coming from
	  Dusseldorf and departed to London two days after. He flied
	  from Japan for a European tour of Free Software
	  organizations.
	</p>

	<!--
	<p>
	  Masayuki Ida and his companions in Japan are long time
	  promoters and developers of Free Software. Okuji (Kyoto) is
	  organizing the GNU related developers mailing list and works
	  on GRUB.  Hironobu (Tokyo) is an independent software
	  consultant, is working on gnupg and is therefore in contact
	  with companies using and developing Free Software. Handa
	  (Tsukuba), working at the Electro Technical Laboratory
	  (governmental), is the author of Emacs-Mule and did a lot
	  of work on i18n. Gniibe (traveling back and forth between
	  Tokyo and Tsukuba), a 30 years old hacker is now working
	  with Handa. He worked on kernel and is a GNU developer.
	</p>
	-->

	<p>
	  In many respects the Japanese community resemble the French
	  Free Software community. They get along well, share more
	  than just code or e-mail, occasionally enjoy having diner
	  together and, above all, enjoy their Free Software related
	  activities.  Compared to APRIL they also have a few
	  differences: the ability to raise fund, active members with
	  management skills and of age greater than 45. Altogether
	  discussing with Masayuki Ida pictured an impressive and
	  delightful image of the Japanese Free Software community.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Masayuki Ida did not came so far away from home for the sole
	  purpose of entertaining us with stories about Japan.  He
	  also wanted to learn from us, Free Software friends in
	  France. On Sunday 7 October APRIL and FSF France members
	  came to our new regular bar (Hall's Beer) to share their
	  experience.  The bar was closed and we backed up to our
	  previous regular bar (Sous Bock) that was also closed and we
	  ended on the pavement, around a few tables.
	</p>

	<p>
	  At first it was a bit awkward to speak English. But when
	  Masayuki Ida started to interview us about our motives to
	  become part of an organization promoting Free Software, the
	  atmosphere relaxed noticeably. Rodolphe Quiédeville said
	  that he was first member of two organizations and favored
	  APRIL because it was more democratic and open. He also said
	  that he first subscribed three years ago because he was
	  tired of working on proprietary software. Loïc Bernable said
	  that he was a Free Software lover and wanted to help
	  promoting it by participating to a non-profit
	  organization. He was a bit embarrassed not to have a huge
	  activity curriculum to show and that triggered an
	  interesting thread. None of us did anything ground breaking
	  but we can be proud of our collective doings. Other
	  testimonies followed and on top of that Frédéric Couchet
	  described how APRIL works from a structural point of view.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The most important aspect of the meeting went without
	  speaking.  Imagine yourself immersed in an informal Free
	  Software association meeting. By listening to people tones,
	  how they apparently know each other, how they joke or are
	  deadly serious, how they speak in a passionate way or seem
	  bored; you get an impression that cannot be transmitted by 
	  e-mail communications.
	</p>

	<!--
	<p>
	  Discussions covered software patents, employment situation
	  of Free Software developers, internationalization etc.
	  Masayuki Ida raised a fascinating concern that never
	  occurred to us (at least not to me ;-). Some people think
	  that all software copyrighted with the GNU GPL belong to the
	  Free Software Foundation. Why ? Simply because the address
	  of the Free Software Foundation shows at the bottom of the
	  license. They do not realize that it only means that the
	  Free Software Foundation is the author of the GNU GPL,
	  not the author and copyright holder of the software. I
	  wonder how many misunderstandings that confusion created.
	</p>
	-->

	<p>
	  Cooperation between the existing Free Software organizations
	  was extensively covered. We acknowledged that the language
	  barrier was problematic but most of all the lack of
	  information about the doings of various existing groups. How
	  could two organizations cooperate if they are not aware of
	  their respective fields of actions ? Of course some
	  communication always exists between a few people that know
	  each other. But publicly available reports and
	  communications that are the fuel of a volunteer based
	  organization are not yet a wide spread practice. Masayuki
	  Ida proposed an international meeting of Free Software
	  people. Such a meeting could be organized in Tokyo, assuming
	  funds can be raised and people willing to devote their time
	  can be found. Given the past curriculum of Free Software
	  people in Japan, it is very likely to happen. Another
	  alternative would be to host this meeting at <a
	  href="http://lsm.abul.org/">LSM</a> the annual international
	  meeting exclusively devoted to Free Software.  It was quite
	  clear that it would be less interesting to host such a
	  meeting in a place that mixes proprietary software and Free
	  Software.
	</p>

	<p>
	  We departed under an heavy rain around midnight, knowing
	  each other much better. I would not go as far as to say that
	  we actually did something during this meeting but we
	  certainly opened a new communication channel between the
	  Free Software community in France and Japan. The day after I
	  discussed during a few hours with Masayuki Ida to understand
	  details of the Japanese Free Software activities and to try
	  to identify possible cooperative grounds. It turned out that
	  I already had some contacts with Nokubi Takatsugu and that
	  other people are already cooperating with Free Software
	  developer in various countries, on technical subjects. This
	  is a favorable ground to <i>upgrade</i> the relationship to
	  include political action, lobbying and promotion of Free 
	  Software.
	</p>

	<p>
	  My dream is that, at some point, Free Software organizations
	  around the world will be able to do a coordinated action
	  involving ten or twenty countries. Maybe a press release
	  signed by representatives of each countries to prevent
	  undesirable effects of the Hague treaty ? When this will
	  happen for the first time, it will be an accomplishment
	  in itself.
	</p>

	<p>
	<i><a href="mailto:loic@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	</p>
	
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Mis à jour:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
