<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Chapter France activity report</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>FSF Europe - Chapter France activity report</h2></center>

	<p/> The <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe
	presence in France</a> started its activity on April 12, a
	little more than a month ago. We worked hard to launch the
	core activities that will allow us to implement the goals of
	the <a href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a> and the <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> : provide
	Free Software for everything and everyone and protect its
	existence when it is threatened. Building the <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/about/about.en.html">administrative</a>
	and <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/">informational
	infrastructure</a> came first. It's an endless task but we had
	to create something to begin with: a <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/birth/birth.en.html">machine
	located in France</a> that is integrated to the <a
	href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU project</a> and a <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/about/statute.fr.html">French
	non profit organization</a>.

	<p/> Then it was necessary to establish working relationships
	with the French association acting since years for the Free
	Software movement in France: <a
	href="http://www.april.org">APRIL</a>. Cooperation between
	organizations requires some amount of magic. After two <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-01-01.fr.html">brainstormings</a>,
	an <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-16-01.en.html">exhibition</a>,
	a <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-04-23-01.fr.html">fiesta</a>
	and many GNU project related activities the magic apparently
	worked.  <a href="http://www.april.org">APRIL</a> members feel
	they belong to <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF
	Europe</a> and <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF
	Europe</a> members feel they belong to <a
	href="http://www.april.org">APRIL</a>. A French association
	dedicated to Free Software in education (<a
	href="http://www.ofset.org/">OFSET</a>) recently united to <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> and we
	expect the same symbiosis. The first step is always the
	harder, following a good example is easier.
	
	<p/> Cooperation with <a href="http://www.april.org">APRIL</a>
	and <a href="http://www.ofset.org/">OFSET</a> was not enough:
	we had to be accepted by the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU
	project</a> to Do The Right Thing and have a collaborative
	spirit. Since the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU
	project</a> project is made of many people and is not an
	organization as such, that was a challenge. However it was
	simpler than establishing good social relationships with
	organizations. As long as you give and take technical
	resources (software, system administration, web editing)
	without breaking anything, you can become a new GNU ;-) We
	built a standard to create <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/server.en.html#Web">web
	sites based on XSLT and XHTML</a> in such a way that it can be
	used on www.gnu.org and heavily <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-04-26-01.en.html">contributed</a>
	to <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/">savannah.gnu.org</a>. As
	you all know, contributing to something you don't use for
	yourself often give bad results.  We therefore based all the
	<a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/server.en.html">infrastructure
	for France related activities</a> on GNU resources, using cvs
	for sources and HTML, DNS and Savannah on a daily basis. At
	this point we could not do without the <a
	href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU project</a> and will therefore
	always help it grow and keep up to date.

	<p/> I believe we did reasonably well on this delicate
	subject.  A newcomer can easily be rejected if he starts to
	act in a way that existing players do not like. Although <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> borrows
	part of the fame of the <a href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a>
	from its name, it is without any doubt a new player in
	Europe. Since our greatest strength is to be united, being
	rejected by the Free Software community in France would have
	been a major failure.  I see the cooperative attitude and
	enthusiasm that enlights projects common to <a
	href="http://www.april.org">APRIL</a>, <a
	href="http://www.ofset.org/">OFSET</a>, <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> and <a
	href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU</a> as the major
	achievement of this first month. Of course some people may not
	be content but they did not express themselves until now ;-)

 	<p/> Demonstrating a cooperative attitude cannot be done by
	talking. It can only be done by acting. Only afterwards is it
	possible to rationalize actions and conclude that they were
	conducted in a cooperative way or not. The rest of this
	document is a dry report of actions impulsed or revived by the
	<a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> in
	France.  I do not forget the numerous actors of Free Software
	who live in France (<a
	href="http://www.debian.org/">Debian</a> developers at large,
	<a href="http://www.texmacs.org/">TeXmacs</a> author, <a
	href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.fr.html">GNU
	philosophy</a> translator to French and countless others).
	The <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> is
	not involved with each of them and they did not wait for the
	<a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> to build
	their own garden in the Free Software universe. The <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> is now
	there, in France, if they need it. But I sincerely hope the Free
	Software movement will always be so lively that the <a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> will never
	be able to count its cells.

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Projects</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/gpl/">Translation of the GNU GPL in French</a>.</dt> 
	  <dd>
	    Lead by Mélanie who started the work early 2001 when RMS
	    asked her for an official translation of the GPL in
	    French. She now receives support from APRIL/FSF
	    Europe/CNRS under the coordination of Frédéric.
	    Discussions started with Georg &amp; CNRS to launch a
	    similar effort in Germany and other European countries.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Mélanie Clément-Fontaine, Benjamin
	    Drieu, Frédéric Couchet, Olivier Berger, Sebastien
	    Blondeel, Loïc Dachary, Till Jaeger, Axel Metzger,
	    Jan Polcher.  <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/libre.en.html">The four freedoms</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    One question quiz where people who cite the four
	    fundamental freedoms of Free Software are listed on the
	    pages of FSF Europe.  After the initial flood 84 persons
	    are listed. Good and simple concept, entertaining during
	    exhibitions and designed to make everyone talk about freedom
	    and philosophy.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Raphaël Rousseau, Loïc Dachary.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt>GNU help desk</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Provide help to GNU (or future GNU) with various issues
	    related to integration in the GNU project, mailing list
	    handling, customs, getting accounts etc. So far 3 developers
	    spontaneously approached us for this purpose. We expect to
	    organize meetings in bars so that we can talk about it and
	    create a proximity community. 
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-09-01.fr.html">Technopole Logiciel Libre</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    A place where companies dedicated to Free Software will be
	    helped to grow. Mostly financed by the French government
	    we have a good contact with them and will help them to 
	    integrate the Free Software movement. The goal is that at
	    some point the FSF Europe will not have to provide assistance
	    and companies created in the Technopole are philosophically
	    and technically integrated in the Free Software movement
	    from the beginning of their life.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Frédéric Couchet, Loïc Dachary
	    <p/>
	  </dd>
	
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-16-01.en.html">Savannah and Europe</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    We got in touch with two projects (PeCoVall, pure/source)
	    who are launching an effort similar to Savannah with
	    slight differences. The first contact only happened last
	    week but we already had a long talk on how to share
	    efforts and resources.  That would save a lot of time and
	    energy to everyone while giving a much bigger dimension to
	    a cooperatively managed development platform. Be it
	    Savannah or known under another name, as long as it's
	    implementing a cooperative work methodology and is
	    dedicated to Free Software, that will change to world we
	    know in the same way as SourceForge did when it appeared.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary, Raphaël Rousseau, Christian Bac.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	</dl>

	<p/>
	<h3><b>GNU project</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/">Savannah</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    A SourceForge clone dedicated to the GNU project and all
	    Free Software projects. This project started a year ago
	    and the first usable version was available around January
	    2001. The most active developers of Savannah as of now are
	    in France and Portugal. The dynamics of Savannah with FSF
	    Europe has a great potential.
	    <p/> 
	    APRIL members responded to the need for new hardware. Joining 
	    efforts with APRIL, FSF Europe was able to provide a brand new
	    set of equipment (2U machine, switch, ups) to the GNU project.
	    The machine is being installed this week.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary, Jaime Villate,
	    Guillaume Morin, Jeff Bailey, Gordon Matzigkeit, Richard M.
	    Stallman.  <p/>
	  </dd>
	</dl>

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Events and advocacy</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-10-01.fr.html/">Microsoft FUD</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The Microsoft spokes person did a followup to the declarations of
	    Craig Mundie. The FSF Europe replied vigorously. 
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt>Unisys studies Free Software</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Unisys was asked to produce a report about Free Software, costs
	    and benefits by the European Commission. The study is conducted
	    in secret by people who never participated to the Free Software
	    movement. The FSF Europe offers help to fix this.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt>Borland Mistake</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Borland wrongfully listed the Free Software Foundation as a
	    partner of the Kylix software. The mistake was fixed in three
	    hours time. An interesting thread followed on the Borland
	    Free Software policy. It's continuing and more people enter
	    the game. 
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-03-01.fr.html">Le Journal du Net</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The FSF Europe interviewed a journalist while being interviewed.
	    Although surprising the journalist was pleased by the result.
	    He sent us the text to review immediately after publication and
	    fixed all the mistakes we pointed out. The Open Source section
	    of the online publication was promised to be changed for
	    Logiciel Libre (Free Software) ... today. 
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-16-01.en.html">Libre et Vie Locale</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Last week FSF Europe and APRIL had a booth and spoke at a
	    conference during the Libre et Vie Locale exhibition in Brest.
	    Our presence at this event was organized by APRIL, as always.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.libre-en-fete.org/">Libre en Fête</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Four days and three nights to celebrate freedom and Free 
	    Software in March 2002. The FSF Europe will be there, of
	    course. Since this is an APRIL project, it 
	    <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/libreenfete/">uses
	    the GNU technical resources</a>.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Pascal Desroche, Rodolphe Quiédeville.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>
	</dl>

	<h3><b>Information infrastructure</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/server.en.html#Web">Web standards</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Imagine, test, debug and use daily a standard to separate 
	    web layout from content while preserving the constraints
	    of www.gnu.org. After a few weeks of usage it works well,
	    is easy enough to understand so that newcomers don't have
	    to read the documentation before doing anything and most 
	    importantly it's intuitive. There is not identified pitfall
	    that <i>should be fixed</i> but is not.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Jaime Villate, Paul Vischer, Loïc Dachary,
	    Richard M. Stallman<p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/">Sysadmin</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Follow the GNU system administration guidelines to setup
	    the France machine so that it can be accepted as a new GNU
	    machine.  It is going to be used as a secondary name
	    server for GNU domains. The accounts on the machine are
	    handled using a <a
	    href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/fsffr/">Savannah
	    project</a> dedicated for this purpose which simplifies
	    account management a great deal. The volunteers handling <a
	    href="mailto:accounts@gnu.org">accounts on the GNU machines</a>
	    started to use a similar method shortly afterwards.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Rodolphe Quiédeville, Joel N. Weber II,
	    Vincent Archer, Frédéric Couchet, Loïc Dachary.<p/>
	  </dd>
	  
	  <dt>Contact Database</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Sharing the same storage format for contacts database is
	    necessary. There is no doubt about that.  FSF, FSF Europe
	    and APRIL more or less decided to use vCard for the
	    storage format of their contact database. There was a lot
	    of discussions on this subject and vCard seems to win the
	    consensus. At present we are all trying to find out which
	    tools we would like to use to handle contacts. Some like
	    pure ASCII, others use emacs + gnus and a few like web
	    interfaces. This is progressing slowly and will have to be
	    solved before the next occasion to share contacts (the FSF
	    Awards 2001 organization was painful in that respect.

	    <p/> A web interface called <a
	      href="http://newt.nevrax.org/">Newt</a> is being
	      installed on france.fsfeurope.org to allow
	      experimenting. That could even be the seed of our
	      secured intranet. One thing at a time ;-)

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Bradley M. Kuhn, Florent Duval,
	    Yan Babilliot, Cedric Valignat, Loïc Dachary.<p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.somenews.org/">SomeNews</a> &amp; 
	    <a href="http://www.gnulinuxfr.org/">LinuxFr.org</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The slashdot equivalent in France, linuxfr.org now responds
	    to the alias gnulinuxfr.org :-) More important it replaced the
	    section Open Source of SomeNews by a Free Software section.
	    <p />
	    The news of FSF Europe in France are displayed in SomeNews.
	    We have the agreement to re-use the GNU section of gnulinuxfr.org
	    and planetelibre.org, this needs to be done ASAP. We are
	    using RSS 0.91 for news syndication but this recently 
	    disappeared from the netscape web site and we will either have
	    to switch to 1.00 and its RDF mixture or try the IPTC XML
	    format. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary, Olivier Berger,
	    Florent Duval.<p/>
	  </dd>
	  
	</dl>

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Administrativia</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/donations/donations.en.html">Donations</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Donations from French people to FSF Europe or relayed by FSF Europe
	    to FSF reaches a total of 50 000 FF. We did not craft a specific
	    strategy to get more donations. Everyone can see what we are doing,
	    we made pretty obvious that we are accepting donations. If someone
	    wants to help FSF Europe financially it's fairly obvious.
	    <p/>
	    The tax deductibility status is being worked on but is not in
	    effect at present. That may take some time.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Olivier Berger, Raphaël Rousseau,
	    Frédéric Couchet, Loïc Dachary, Noémie, Cyril Bouthors.  <p/>
	  </dd>
	    
	  <dt>Hardware &amp; services donation</dt>
	  <dd>
	    Although we did not make a specific page for this purpose
	    we received numerous donation in hardware and services
	    (hosting, counseling etc.). In short the assets of FSF
	    Europe in France at present is a server (PIII500, 512Mb
	    RAM, 30Gb disk), three UPS (APC 1000), a laptop (PII350,
	    128Mb RAM, 6Gb disk), lifelong office hosting by <a
	    href="http://www.lolix.org/">Lolix</a> and lifelong
	    machine hosting by <a
	    href="http://www.nevrax.com/">Nevrax</a>.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Rodolphe Quiedeville, Olivier
	    Lejade, Cyril Bouthors, Raphaël Rousseau , Frédéric Coucher, Loïc Dachary, Vincent Archer.  <p/>
	  </dd>
	</dl>

	<p />
	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
