<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF France activity report</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>FSF France activity report</h2></center>

	<p/> The <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe
	presence in France</a> exists since April 12, and produced an
	<a
	href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-20-01.en.html">activity
	report May 20</a>. If some subjects are obscure in this
	report, you can get back to the previous report to better
	understand them. We took care to keep the same headlines to
	ease cross reference. The colaborative spirit described in the
	previous report is certainly our most proeminent
	achievement. Our motto could be that we don't undertake
	actions alone. It is better not to undertake an action if we
	fail to actually cooperate with Free Software movement people
	and organizations already involved.

	<p/> Although this spirit makes sense in writing it requires a
	significant amount of effort. The syndrom of replicating
	effort does not only apply to software. Organizations also
	have a natural tendency to undertake new projects before
	searching for similar efforts, before actually engaging a
	dialog with people involved, before trying everything to
	cooperate. 

	<p/> The bandwidth of the brain is significantly higher than
	the bandwidth of the mail. If all the dialog needed to start
	a new project occurs in the brain of a single person, the
	project will take off rapidly, the first version will be available
	fast and bring some results within days. When you extend the 
	dialog to other people and organizations, it gets significantly
	slower at first. Only later does it become faster and stronger.
	Yes, union is a force but it works slower and is not fit for
	the impatient.
	
	<p/> A fairly good example is our involvement in the
	infrastructure of the GNU project. From the beginning we
	started with the idea that all our technical infrastructure
	should use and contribute to the infrastructure of the GNU
	project. The advantages are pretty obvious: why run and
	maintain Mailman, exim, ftp server, web server, CVS when those
	are already available and maintained by the GNU project ?
	The drawbacks are also pretty obvious: understanding the
	infrastructure of the GNU project, contribute to it so that
	it fits our needs introduces a significant bootstrap delay.

	<p/> The machine we installed in France is now fully
	integrated to the GNU project, meaning that it is monitored
	and maintained by the GNU project. This a win for us. It also
	runs the secondary DNS for gnu.org domains. This is a win for
	the GNU project. Mailing lists and web site for FSF Europe are
	managed by machines in Boston. This is win for us. People
	involved in the system administration of the machine in France
	know the infrastructure of the GNU project and can contribute
	to the maintainance of other machines. This a win for the GNU
	project.

	<p/> This may seem an example that is of no great consequence
	but in our eyes it reflects the essence of cooperation. It's
	slower but it makes us stronger. This example is also chosen
	on purpose because we believe that technical heterogeneity is
	often the first obstacle to cooperation on non technical
	matters. Say, for instance, that two Free Software
	organizations want to share their calendars to coordinate
	their political actions. If they use technical tools that are
	significantly different it may prove inconvenient for them to
	actually do it. We are not saying that it is a major
	problem, we are not saying that everybody should use the exact
	same tools or nothing. We only acknowledge that cooperation
	on a technical infrastructure is a win/win situation that
	also removes an obstacle for cooperation on non technical 
	matters. Given the fact that we have scarce resources at
	all time, there is no reason to discard this advantage.

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Projects</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/gpl/">Translation of the GNU GPL in French</a>.</dt> 
	  <dd>

	    An interview of <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-17-01.fr.html">Mélanie
	    Clément-Fontaine</a>
	    (french, 19 Mai 2001), and <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-15-01.fr.html">Benjamin
	    Drieu</a> (french, 17
	    Mai 2001)  about the translation of the GNU GPL were conducted to 
	    keep people informed of the progress made so far.

	    <p/> Till Jaeger and Axel Metzger, two German lawyers in
	    contact with the FSF Europe are also following and
	    participating to this project. They are working on launching a
	    similar effort in their country.

	    <p/> During the <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">Libre
	    Software Meeting</a> in Bordeaux, Eben Moglen came to
	    express his vision of the future of the GPL. A workshop
	    involving Mélanie Clément Fontaine, Eben Moglen, Bradley
	    M. Kuhn, Anne Østergaard and around twenty people
	    interested in the subject allowed to clarify very
	    importants points. Eben Moglen stressed the fact that it
	    is important that the translation matches the following
	    constraints:

	    <ul>

	      <li>It must not be used as a legaly binding license, it must
		remain informative, the english version being the only one
		that has a legal force.
	      </li>

	      <li>It must not be bound to contract law</li>

	    </ul>

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Mélanie Clément-Fontaine, Benjamin
	    Drieu, Frédéric Couchet, Olivier Berger, Sebastien
	    Blondeel, Loïc Dachary, Till Jaeger, Axel Metzger.  <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.april.org/actions/brevets/academie.html">Patents</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    APRIL launched a call for action to encourage people to act against
	    patents. They propose specific actions and provide all the
	    material needed to strongly react against the report given
	    to the french government that is in favor of software patents.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Frédéric Couchet.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/libre.en.html">The four freedoms</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    A steady flow of people are participating.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Raphaël Rousseau, Loïc Dachary.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.ofset.org/">Education</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Hilaire Fernandes and other volunteers joined the GNU project
	    and created the <a href="http://www.gnu.org/education/">education
	      section</a> of the GNU project. They established contact with
	    Canadian and Chinese activists involved in providing Free Software
	    for educational purposes. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/project/memberlist.php?group_id=200">savannah list</a>
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/science/">Science</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    ???
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Joris Van der Hoven
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/coposys/">Coposys</a>.</dt> 
	  <dd>
	    Olivier Berger <a
	    href="http://savannah.gnu.org/pm/task.php?func=detailtask&amp;project_task_id=156&amp;group_id=53&amp;group_project_id=48">proposed
	    a project</a> to visualize Free Software friends around
	    the globle. Cyril Bouthors <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/coposys/">implemented
	    and installed</a> a first version and hundreds of people registered
	    from all over the world. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Cyril Bouthors, Olivier Berger.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/voting/voting.en.html">Electronic Voting</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    An information page on electronic voting issues was produced to
	    highlight the importance of Free Software in these matter. We
	    do not have the ambition to spend time to try to solve this
	    enormous problem at present. We merely keep in touch with 
	    french people interested in the subject and store information.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/collecte.en.html">Press Review</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Nicole Ciry and Gilles Veillon launched the project of gathering
	    french articles about Free Software. The produced a methodology,
	    explained it in a web page and gather the first articles. Those
	    articles are sent once a month to the FSF in Boston.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Nicole Ciry, Gilles Veillon.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt>GNU project information relay (was GNU help desk)</dt>
	  <dd>
	    In the previous report this was listed as GNU help desk which 
	    was kind of inaccurate. The proximity of french people involved
	    in the GNU project makes it easier for other french people to 
	    get involved in the GNU project, in a way or another. Some
	    developers come to us for various points related to the GNU
	    project:
	    <p/>

	    <ul>
	      <li> A software they wrote is being evaluated for inclusion
		in the GNU project. These requests are handled thru
		<a href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-eval/">
		  the fsfe-eval@gnu.org</a> mailing list.
	      </li>
	      <li> They wrote a software and wonder what it means to become
		part of the GNU project.
	      </li>
	      <li> They would like to help in the system
		administration of the GNU project.
	      </li>
	      <li> They have an idea to improve the infrastructure of
		the GNU project.
	      </li>
	    </ul>
	    
	    <p/> 

	    Loïc Dachary got involved in the evaluation of a software
	    that wanted to become part of the GNU project. It was the
	    occasion for him to get practical experience of this
	    process in order to better answer questions. A pretty <a
	    href="http://mail.gnu.org/pipermail/fsfe-france/2001-June/000694.html">long
	    thread </a> regarding the rationale of the evaluation
	    process and other issues related to GNU was launched by
	    Denis Barbier. His critic views and comparisons with the
	    Debian process are very valuable, specially since he is
	    not a member of the GNU project. To be completly honest no
	    visible modifications of the GNU project are a direct
	    consequence of this discussion. Mainly because Loïc Dachary
	    is postponing this for no other reason than lack of time.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt>GNU and Debian</dt>
	  <dd>
	    French people involved in the GNU, Debian and FreeBSD
	    project <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-06-05-01.fr.html">met
	    to drink a beer</a> and share their experiences. This was
	    a chance to know each other and better understand our
	    differences. No report of this meeting is available,
	    unfortunately. 

	    <p/> We had another opportunity to meet and discuss during
	    the <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">LSM</a> that was also
	    the <a
	    href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic20/topic20.php3">Debian
	    conference 1</a>.

	    <p/> As a direct consequence of these talks, some concrete things
	    happened. That may not be all of it but that is what we know.
	    
	    <ul>
	      <li>
		Loïc Dachary who is a <a
		  href="http://www.gnu.org/people/">member of the GNU
		  project</a> became a <a
		  href="http://nm.debian.org/nmstatus.php?email=loic%40senga.org">Debian
		  developer</a>
	      </li>

	      <li>
		Igor Genibel who is a <a
		href="http://www.debian.org/devel/people">Debian
		developer</a> became a <a
		href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnu-search/">member
		of the GNU project</a>.
	      </li>

	      <li>
		Martin Michlmayr, a leading force of the <a
		href="http://qa.debian.org/people.html">Debian QA
		group </a> (re)joined the <a href="mailto:tbm@gnu.org">GNU 
		  project</a> to improve the QA of GNU with the help of
		the Debian tools.
	      </li>
	    </ul>

	    Of course we discussed a lot about philosophical issues
	    that keep the GNU and Debian organizations appart. Those
	    are the explicit support of non free software in the
	    Debian social contract and some software packages in
	    the <i>main</i> part of Debian that do not qualify as 
	    Free Software according to GNU. Solving these issues
	    is an on-going effort on both sides. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Raphaël Rousseau, Loïc Dachary,
	    Olivier Berger.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-09-01.fr.html">Technopole Logiciel Libre</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Frédéric Couchet maintains good relationships with the Technopole
	    Logiciel Libre. A result of this cooperation was the interview
	    of ?? in the newspaper ?. The Technopole Logiciel Libre was 
	    also invited to <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">LSM</a> where
	    Philippe Carpentier made a speech to explain the goals and
	    philosophy of the project.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Frédéric Couchet, Loïc Dachary
	    <p/>
	  </dd>
	
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-06-14-01.en.html">Savannah and Europe: CoopX</a></dt>
	  <dd>

	    The contacts we had with hosting platforms similar to <a
	    href="http://savannah.gnu.org/">Savannah</a> in France
	    triggered the creation of a working group called <a
	    href="http://coopx.eu.org">CoopX</a>. 

	    <p/> The goal of this working group is to define an
	    interchange format between hosting platform. <a
	    href="http://sf.net/">SourceForge</a>, <a
	    href="http://phpgroupware.org/">phpGroupWare</a> joined
	    the working group shortly after its creation. CoopX was
	    also pleased to welcome <a
	    href="http://www.tuxfamily.org">TuxFamily</a>, a
	    cooperatively run hosting facility run by french
	    volunteers.

	    <p/> Although we are a founding member of CoopX, the
	    project itself is neither hosted nor ruled by us. It is
	    a strictly cooperative effort and every group willing to
	    participate actively is welcome. Even non free software
	    groups, as long as the format is decided cooperatively and
	    released under a license that has the same qualities as the
	    GNU FLD. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary, Christian Bac,
	    Samuel Tardieu, Dan Kuykendall, Tim Perdue and many
	    others.
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	</dl>

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Links with Free Software organizations</b></h3>
	<p/>
	In the network of Free Software organizations we actively 
	worked to establish contacts in order to be able to actually
	do things in a coordinated way. The ideal situation would be
	that each organizations in a given geographical location is
	able quickly establish contact with any other organization over
	the world for a given action related to education, software
	development or political issues. The following list is a map
	of the network involving at least one person from FSF France
	or APRIL.
	
	<ul>
	  <li><a href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfc-discuss/">FSF Canada</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://fsf.org.in/">FSF India</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://www.rons.net.cn/english/Links/fsf-china/">FSF China</a>.</li> 
	  <li>FSF Japan.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://cyberlink.idws.com/fsm/">AFSM</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://es.gnu.org/">GNU Spain</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://www.abul.org/">ABUL</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://www.aldil.org/">ALDIL</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://www.lastjeudi.org/">ALL</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://mail.gnu.org/pipermail/fsfe-portugal/">AGIL</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://www.softwarelibero.org/">Associazione Software Libero</a>.</li> 
	  <li><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-05-01.en.html">AAUL</a>.</li> 
	</ul>

	<p/> FSF France is tightly bound to APRIL and we had four meetings
	in the past three months. Two meeting reports are available.

	<ul>
	  <li><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-23-01.en.html">July 23 2001</a></li>
	  <li><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-06-12-01.fr.html">June 12 2001</a></li>
	</ul>

	<p/> A Free Software organization (<a
	href="http://mail.gnu.org/pipermail/fsfe-portugal/">AGIL</a>)
	is being created in Portugal. A lot of discussions with APRIL
	were engaged to share their experience. A similar dialog is being
	established with Masayuki Ida to create a Free Software organization
	in Japan. Masayuki Ida will be visiting France in October and we
	plan to meet with APRIL activists on this subject.

	<p/>
	<h3><b>GNU project</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/">Sysadmin fr.fsf.org</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Rodolphe Quiedeville, Cedric Valignat and Jean-Louis
	    Bergamot are also doing occasional system administration
	    on the GNU machine in France and were very efficient when
	    handling a minor security alert. Cedric is now taking care
	    of the Internet connection of the GNU machine in france and
	    is in contact with Joel N Weber II for this purpose.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Rodolphe Quiedeville, Cedric Valignat and Jean-Louis Bergamot, Loïc Dachary, Joel N. Weber II, Frédéric Couchet. <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/">Savannah</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-28-01.en.html">installation
	    of the new hardware</a> allowed Savannah to grow. It is now
	    serving more than 200 projects and around 1 500 members joined
	    it. 

	    <p/> The most important event is that Savannah is now open
	    to Free Software projects that do not (yet ;-) joined the GNU
	    project. This allows candidate packages to the GNU project to
	    develop and grow while going thru the application process. At
	    present 87 such projects are hosted on Savannah. 

	    <p/> Now that phpGroupWare was dubbed a GNU package, the
	    prespective of migrating the software used to run Savannah
	    under phpGroupWare is more likely to become a reality. At
	    present there is no concrete plan in this direction but it
	    is actively discussed.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary, Jaime Villate,
	    Guillaume Morin, Jeff Bailey, Gordon Matzigkeit, Richard M.
	    Stallman.  <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnu-search/">GNU Search</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    As of today the <a
	    href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnu-search/">GNU
	    search</a> team was created to maintain and improve the
	    search facility of the GNU project. Cyril Bouthors, Igor
	    Genibel and Helios de Creisquer launched this
	    project. They started as volunteer system administrators
	    of the GNU machine in france (fr.fsf.org). By doing 
	    simple tasks in this context they became familiar with the
	    GNU project and proposed to become more commited to the
	    infrastructure.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary, Cyril Bouthors, Igor
	    Genibel, Helios de Creisquer <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/server/">GNU DNS</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Joel N. Weber II monitored the fr.fsf.org machine during a
	    few weeks and found that it could do a reasonable
	    secondary name server for the gnu.org domain. He installed it
	    about a month ago and it's running fine. Should the north american
	    continent disapear the domain will still be resolved.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Joel N. Weber II, Loïc Dachary, Cyril Bouthors<p/>
	  </dd>
	</dl>

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Events and advocacy</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://solutions.journaldunet.com/">Le Journal du Net</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    This well known french online newspaper changed their category
	    entitled <i>Open Source</i> to <i>Logiciel Libre</i>.
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/drafts/faq-constructeurs/generated-html/FAQConstructeurs.fr.html">FAQ hardware producers</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Marc Aurèle Darche and Philippe Coulonges wrote a FAQ
	    to inform hardware producers about the advantages of Free
	    Software drivers. This is the first work that involve a
	    cooperation between APRIL, AFUL and FSF France. Marc
	    Aurèle Darche deserves all the credit for making this
	    joint effort a reality. Although FSF France will not endorse
	    the document produced because it partialy advocates for the
	    Open Source movement, working on it allowed us to contribute
	    to the text related to Free Software. 
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.gnupg.org/">DCSSI and GNU PG</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The french governement maintains a list of software known to 
	    provide encryption. During LSM Werner Koch asked for volunteers
	    to register GNU PG. Some people show interest to do that but
	    the action did not start yet.
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.ceenet.org/">CEENET</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    Sebastien Blondeel is attending CEENET in Hungaria (August
	    20). He will bring goodies from APRIL and FSF Europe and spread the
	    word in our name. He will meet Shooby Ban who is potentialy interested
	    in launching a Free Software dedicated organization. People attending
	    CEENET are not specificaly interested in Free Software, that makes
	    his mission even more interesting.
	    
	    <p />
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://www.unesco.org/webworld/portal_freesoft/">Unesco</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    We engaged a discussion with Unesco on the subject of their Free 
	    Software portal because we feel that its content is problematic
	    in many ways. The people are responsive and we sent them 
	    a proposal to replace the license page. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary.  <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://sf.net/">SourceForge and VA Linux</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    We are helping VA Linux to produce a copyright assignement 
	    form for SourceForge authors. The experience of the FSF in
	    this matter is valuable.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary.  <p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">Libre Software Meeting</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The event was far too rich to summarize in this report. To
	    our knowledge it is the only event in the world
	    exclusively dedicated to Free Software.  When compared to
	    events like LinuxWord where at least half the people and
	    organizations present are indeed interested or involved in
	    non free software, it makes a huge difference.  Some <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-09-01.en.html">pictures</a>
	    were taken for the record. Next year event will be
	    organized together with the FSF France, with <a
	    href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/lsm">technical
	    help</a> from the GNU project.

	    <p/> We had the opportunity to <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-04-01.en.html">meet
	    people involved in Free Software organizations</a> from
	    all over the world.
	    
	    <p/> Frédéric Couchet and Carl W. Vilbrandt organized and
	    participated to the <a
	    href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic16/topic16.php3">
	    Law, Economy, Politic and libre software</a> session.

	    <p/> Frédéric Couchet introduced the FSF Europe to the
	    audience in a one hour speech.

	    <p/>
	    Loïc Dachary was an informal spokeperson of the <a
	    href="http://cyberlink.idws.com/fsm/">AFSM</a> during the <a
	    href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-05-01.en.html">AAUL</a>
	    meeting.

	    <p/>
	    Loïc Dachary shortly spoke about Savannah during the
	    <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic05/topic05.php3">
	      Libre Software for Communication </a> session.

	    <p/> The FSF France actively participated to the
	      discussions of the <a
	      href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic21/topic21.php3">
	      APRIL members Convention</a>. Jaime Villate also attended
	    the event in the name of the future Free Software organization
	    (AGIL will be the name) that is being created in portugal.
	      
	    <p/>
	  </dd>

	</dl>

	<h3><b>Information infrastructure</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> migration</dt>
	  <dd>
	    <p/> The <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">FSF
	    Europe</a> web was migrated to the france.fsfeurope.org
	    machine. This was mainly done to ease the maintainance
	    process of the web and increase the page generation rate
	    without risking to overload the gnudist.gnu.org machine
	    which is already hosting the <a
	    href="http://www.gnu.org/">GNU</a> web site.
	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Frédéric Couchet, Loïc Dachary<p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/www/">Web standards</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    A script repository was created so that directories on various
	    GNU machines handling web sites can use them. The first 
	    script to enter the arena is a symbolic link builder for CVS
	    HTML pages. 

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Jaime Villate, Paul Vischer, Loïc Dachary,
	    Richard M. Stallman<p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://audio-video.gnu.org/">Audio and video repository</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    A large audio and video repository was created. The
	    primary purpose is to store the FSF Award 2000 video file
	    (1.2Gb) and 400Mb audio files. There is a total of 22Gb 
	    available.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Loïc Dachary<p/>
	  </dd>

	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/">News channel</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    The RSS based news channel of FSF France is available
	    on <a http="http://www.fsfeurope.org/news/">FSF Europe</a>.
	    Olivier Berger enhanced it to display only the latest news
	    on the front page and all the archives in the news subdirectory.
	    <p/>
	    They are now dispatched on a
	    daily basis by mail on the <a
	      href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-newsfr-en">fsfe-newsfr-en@gnu.org</a>
	    mailing-list. This allows people interested in Free Software
	    movement to keep informed of FSF France activity. To subscribe
	    to this mailing-list, <a
	      href="mailto:fsfe-newsfr-en-request@gnu.org?subject=subscribe">send
	      a mail to fsfe-newsfr-en-request@gnu.org with the subject
	      "subscribe"</a>

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Olivier Berger, Loïc Dachary
	    <p/>
	  </dd>
	  
	</dl>

	<p/>
	<h3><b>Administrativia</b></h3>
	<p/>
	<dl>
	  <dt><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/donations/donations.en.html">Donations</a></dt>
	  <dd>
	    We did not chase donations and (what a surprise ;-) nobody sent
	    a cent to FSF France in the past months. The good news is that
	    we did not spend any money either.
	    <p/>
	    Cyril Bouthors and Noémie <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/pm/task.php?func=detailtask&amp;project_task_id=141&amp;group_id=53&amp;group_project_id=37">worked hard on the tax deductibility issue</a>.
	    The papers were sent to the administration and we are waiting for
	    their answer.

	    <p/> <i>Volunteers:</i> Olivier Berger, Raphaël Rousseau,
	    Frédéric Couchet, Loïc Dachary, Noémie, Cyril Bouthors.  <p/>
	  </dd>
	    
	</dl>

	<p />
	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
