<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>AAUL meeting at LSM</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English | <a href="article2001-07-05-01.fr.html">French</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>AAUL meeting at LSM</h2></center>

	<p /> The AAUL is the Association Africaine des Utilisateurs
	de Logiciels Libres (Free Software Users African
	Association). The second L is missing from the acronym. The
	organization used the <a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">LSM</a>
	meeting as an opportunity to report what was done during the
	past year. The session was entitled <a
	href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic03/topic03.php3">Libre
	software for development</a> and presented by <a
	href="mailto:Pierre.Ouedraogo@francophonie.org">Pierre
	Ouédraogo</a> and <a
	href="mailto:Augustin.Ido@francophonie.org">Augustin Ido</a>.

	<p /> At the end of the session and after a discussion with
	Pierre Ouédraogo it became quite clear that the <a
	href="http://cyberlink.idws.com/fsm/">AFSM</a>, the <a
	href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a> and the <a
	href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">FSF Europe</a> should work
	with the AAUL so that it can match the goals and the
	philosophy of the Free Software movement. Pierre Ouédraogo
	said that the use of the <i>Linux</i> buzzword in the names of
	organizations or activities became problematic and that it
	should be replaced by Free Software because this is what AAUL
	is really about. We also discussed a bit about the problems
	triggered by a strategy that focuses too much on the price
	advantage of Free Software.  

	<p /> Here is a report of what was said during the conference.

	<p /> <i>Pierre Ouédraogo</i>: Born <a
	href="http://lsm2000.abul.org/program/topic03/aull_fr.html">last
	year</a>, the AAUL focuses on using Free Software instead of
	non free software for license cost reason. Shortly after its
	creation courses for African countries were proposed and gave
	us the opportunity to meet other countries. We found only one
	organization: LPA Linux Professional Association in south
	africa. Some countries asked us to help them to setup an
	organization. At the end of 2000 we continued, for instance in
	Botzwana and during a meeting in Los Angeles. There was no
	quick return from our action, except in French speaking
	countries.

	<p /> We were in a situation where the AAUL could not be supported
	by associations. The name was problematic because it cannot be 
	pronounced in foreign language, we will change it. 

	<p /> AAUL has contacts in the following countries, organizations
	already exists in some of them.

	<ul>
	  <li> Senegal, ASUL (represented)</li>
	  <li> Mauritania, being created (represented)</li>
	  <li> Mali, AMUL-Mali (represented) </li>
	  <li> Guinea, AGUIPOPROLL  (represented)</li>
	  <li> Niger, AN3L (represented)</li>
	  <li> Togo, ATULL (represented)</li>
	  <li> Ivory Coast, AI3L </li>
	  <li> Cameroun, AC3L </li>
	  <li> Gabon, AG3L (represented)</li>
	  <li> Burkina Faso, ABU (represented)</li>
	  <li> Madagascar, AMUL-MG (represented)</li>
	  <li> Burundi, being created (represented)</li>
	  <li> Moroco, ? </li>
	  <li> Algeria, ? </li>
	  <li> South Africa, AFSM (represented) </li>
	  <li> Benin, ? </li>
	  <li> Tunisia, ? </li>
	  <li> Congo RDC, ? </li>
	  <li> Central Africa, ? </li>
	  <li> Rwanda, ? </li>
	  <li> Comores, ? </li>
	  <li> Maurice, ? </li>
	</ul>
	
	<p /> We want to raise the question of the portal, on the model
	of Linux Africa that should be open in two weeks. We would build
	the portal on top of it. We will mainly list links to national
	organizations. Because of linguistic problems it will develop
	slowly. The objective of the Linux Africa is to gather 20 
	countries in the next year.

	<p /> During AFNOR (meeting about Internet and new technologies)
	in May 2002 we will have an AAUL meeting. That would be the first
	meeting of the AAUL with, hopefully 1/3 of the countries. It is
	likely to be a west africa meeting.

	<p /> If you have information about existing Linux organizations,
	don't hesitate to tell us. We were in a meeting in Tunisia on the
	subject of Free Software for electronic commerce and nobody told
	us about the organization promoting Linux that exists.

	<p /> We see many administrations, in Senegal and Mauritania
	for instance, that switch to Free Software and the movement is
	accelerating. In Gabon the intranet of the finance ministry
	will use Free Software. The education on Free Software should
	be re-enforced technically and in security. In the past month
	we made a course on Linux-2.4 and netfilter to setup a firewall
	at a reduced price. There are 18 teacher in all the countries
	that are available to provide courses. In order for the students 
	to be able to get knowledge, they should learn about Free Software
	so that they will be able to write some instead of just using 
	them. 

	<p /><i>Everybody in the room:</i> speak shortly (less than 1
	minute) to explain who they are and what they do.

	<p /><i>Loïc Dachary:</i> the Free Software Foundation in
	every country is very willing to cooperate with existing
	organizations in order to promote the Free Software movement
	in Africa. We see as very important to promote the values of
	freedom and independence that Free Software can bring while we
	see the problem of price as secondary. This is a question of
	strategy: by focusing too much on the price question the most
	important points are forgotten and the Free Software movement
	becomes more vulnerable. For instance a large corporation
	making non free software could offer free licenses during
	three years to a given country in order to capture the
	users. If the arguments promoting Free Software are based on
	values of freedom and independence, the corporations will not
	be able to use that strategy to counter balance the Free
	Software movement.

	<p />Augustin Ido reports about the connectivity problems in
	Africa and the solutions that are being worked on.

	<p/>
	<i><a href="mailto:loic@fsfeurope.org">Loïc
	Dachary</a></i> <p/>
	
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Mis à jour:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
