<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>First meeting of the members of the FSFE-Portugal mailing list</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English | 
        <a href="article2001-06-19-01.fr.html">Français</a> |
        <a href="article2001-06-19-01.pt.html">Português</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<div align="center"><h2>First meeting of the members of the
	    FSFE-Portugal mailing list</h2></div>
	<p>
	  [ Minutes prepared by João Miguel Neves; modified by Bruno Marques,
	  Hugo Nogueira and Jaime Villate. English translation by: Jaime
	  Villate ]
	</p>
	<p>
	  Place: Faculdade de Engenharia, University of Porto.
	  Date: June 9th, 2001.
	</p>

	<h2>1. Members present</h2>
	<ul>
          <li>Rui Seabra - Braga, SIBS, Lisboa;</li>
          <li>Raul Oliveira - Porto, lecturer at FEUP, organizer of Porto
          Cidade Linux;</li>
          <li>Bruno Marques - Viseu, lecturer at Escola Superior de
          Tecnologia, Linux Study Group;</li>
          <li>Ricardo Silva - Viseu, Student at Escola Superior de Tecnologia,
          Linux Study Group;</li>
          <li>Ruben Mendes - Oliveira de Azemeis, stock holder/manager at
          Netureza;</li>
          <li>Rui Leite - Porto, student at Faculdade de Economia, University
          of Porto;</li>
          <li>Miguel Gonçalves - Porto, student at FEUP;</li>
          <li>João Neves - Lisboa, masters student at IST;</li>
          <li>Jaime Villate - Porto, physics lecturer at FEUP.</li>
	</ul>

	<h2>2. Information about FSF Europe and a future Portuguese Chapter</h2>
	<p>
	  Jaime Villate made a summary on the evolution of FSF Europe.  Raul
	  Oliveira pointed out that it is extremely important for Europe to
	  gain some independence from the U.S.A. regarding information
	  infrastructures (software and communications), both by security
	  reasons as Echelon, and for system trust. Our political leaders
	  should be convinced to get involved. He proposes that instead of
	  passing the message that free software is cheaper, the message
	  should be that with the same price more and better results can be
	  attained. Jaime remarked that the difference between proprietary
	  and commercial software should be emphasized.
	</p>
	<h2>3. Discussion of the type of entity to be created</h2>
	<p>
	  Ruben Mendes summarized the customary structure for a non-profit
	  organization in Portugal. Rui Seabra emphasized that a budget must
	  be approved in order to be eligible for state support. Miguel and
	  Jaime are going to try to get a room for the official site of the
	  association.
	</p>
	<p>Lunch break</p>

	<h2>4. Name of the Association</h2>
	<p>
	  Bruno Marques points out that the name should make a first good
	  impression. Some suggestions for the name are:
	</p>
	<ul>
	  <li>APIL - Portuguese Association for Free Informatics;</li>
          <li>ELSA - Enclave for the Liberation of Software and its
	    Applications;</li>
          <li>ANIL - National Association of Free Informatics;</li>
          <li>AGIL - Global Association of Free Informatics;</li>
          <li>MISSIL - Movement for the Introduction and Defense of Free
          Software and Informatics;</li>
          <li>INFOL - Free Informatics.</li>
	</ul>
	<p>The general opinion points to AGIL and ANIL as preferred names.</p>

	<p>
	  [Further name proposals in the mailing list include: ANSOL (National
	  Association for Free Software) and ANCIL (National Association of
	  the Free Informatics Community), currently the preferred name seems
	  to be ANSOL]
	</p>
	<h2>5. Tasks Distribution</h2>
	<ol>
	  <li>Write down a proposal for the by-laws: Ruben and João;</li>
	  <li>Official location of the association: Miguel and Jaime;</li>
	  <li>Legal registry of the association: Ruben;</li>
	  <li>Website: Jaime.</li>
	</ol>
	<p>
	  It was decided by consensus that there should be membership
	  fees. Jaime proposes that the fees should be affordable enough not
	  to discourage students. It was decided that the General Assembly
	  will set up the member fees and the various kinds of membership.
	</p>
	<h2>6. Digital key signing</h2>
	<p>The mutual signing of gpg keys took place.</p>

	<h2>7. Other matters</h2>
	<p>
	  The Association's mission will be discussed through the
	  fsfe-portugal@gnu.org mailing list. Contacts with people prominent
	  in the Free Software scene in Portugal will be conducted, to avoid
	  making them feel foreign to this association.
	</p>
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
