<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Libre et Vie Locale</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>Libre et Vie Locale</h2></center>

        <p>Here is the first report by Loïc Dachary for may 16th</p>

	<p /> Yesterday night three APRIL members (Rodolphe Quiédeville,
	Benjamin Drieu and Pascal Desroche) and two FSF Europe members (Frédéric
	Couchet and Loïc Dachary) arrived at Brest for the <b>Libre
	and Vie Locale</b> conference (Freedom and life in the region
	is a fuzzy translation that can give you an idea of the
	subject). The web site of the conference for further information
	is at <a href="http://libre.enst-bretagne.fr/LibreEtVieLocale/">
	  http://libre.enst-bretagne.fr/LibreEtVieLocale/</a>.

	<p /> It needs to be remembered as the first coordinated action
	between the FSF Europe and an associated organization. A booth
	was organized with APRIL and FSF Europe written all over the
	place. APRIL took care of the actual organization of the
	conference since they had all the contacts and know-how, FSF
	Europe was there to present itself, the Free Software movement
	goals and actions. When the FSF Europe talked about the GNU
	project we could not miss the fact that most active APRIL
	members are also active contributors to the GNU project and
	organizers of the FSF exhibitions in France since 1996. When
	the subject of software patents was raised APRIL provided the
	knowledge and background that FSF Europe could not claim after
	one month of existence. The link between FSF Europe and APRIL
	worked well, was obvious to everyone and was beneficial to
	both.

	<p /> Three speeches caught my attention during this
	day. 

	<p /> First a talk from David Mentré (INRIA - AFUL - Gulliver)
	that explained clearly what is Free Software and in which
	domains it's usable. The conference was well prepared, easy to
	understand and well spoken. David Mentré is an advocate the
	Free Software movement who weight his words and find colorful
	examples with great care. Later in the night we had a long 
	discussion on Free Software, its goals, the licenses, the 
	techniques to advocate for freedom, the drifts of the Open Source
	movement, the GNU LGPL. One interesting thing David advocated is
	that, although he always advocates for the use of a GNU GPL
	licenses, using a BSD license in some rare cases may be useful.
	He acknowledged the fact that a BSD does not give any protection
	to the author regarding the extension with non Free Software
	programs and that it's a drawback. However, the BSD license could
	be used to quickly spread a technology designed to replace a
	patented software. I advocated that the GNU LGPL would very well 
	allow to achieve the same goal.

	<p /> Mélanie Fontaine who is working on the translation of
	the GNU GPL in French gave a talk that was not focused on this
	subject but raised some interesting points. After the
	conference I spent about an hour talking with Mélanie on the
	translation of the GNU GPL and this interview will be
	published in the next few days. This effort is mainly a joint
	effort between Benjamin Drieu (APRIL) who is in charge of the
	translation of technical parts, Mélanie Clément-Fontaine
	(Alcôve / RNTL) who provides and coordinates the legal
	expertise and Frédéric Couchet (FSF Europe) who coordinates
	and organizes the efforts. Working sessions will be organized
	soon and the resulting work will be presented by all the
	actors and Eben Möglen during the Libre Software Meeting in
	Bordeaux this summer.
	
	<p /> The last talk caught my attention to a very high degree.
	The GET (ENST, INT Evry and ENST Bretagne) is building a
	server that provides the same facilities as Savannah.  The URL
	of the project is <a
	href="http://serveur-libre.enst-bretagne.fr/">http://serveur-libre.enst-bretagne.fr/</a>
	About 7 persons involved in this effort were present. Eric
	Cousin and Gérald Ouvradou. The goal of this server is to
	provide a technical tool to the students and a way to learn
	how to work cooperatively.  I immediately suggested that they
	could use and contribute to Savannah instead of re-building
	their own server. That would teach the students how to
	actually cooperate on a large and international scale while
	providing a ready-to-run solution.  Although that may seem a
	highly desirable way to integrate the GET in the Free Software
	movement, there is a blocking point.  Savannah will only
	accept Free Software projects, that's a fact.  When a teachers
	assign a two month project to 30 students, working in groups
	of four. What happens if one of the group does <i>not</i> want
	its project to be Free Software ? He won't be able to use
	Savannah and the school cannot force them to publish their
	work under a Free Software license. I've been thinking on how
	to solve this so that the GET and Savannah can share resources
	and task force but could not come to a solution, yet. Help is
	very welcome ;-)

	<p /> I also learned that pure/source is a project accepted by
	RNTL (French research financed by the government) and
	involving INRIA and Linbox. The goal is to build ... a server
	that provides the same facilities as Savannah. This project
	was submitted to RNTL last year and will start real soon
	now. Bernard Lang, who is the INRIA contact for this project,
	was there and we had an opportunity to talk with him and the
	GET. It looks like our destiny was to meet each other during
	this conference.  The GET project is the older since it
	started two years ago.  The pure/source and Savannah only
	started a year ago. Despite the fact that we all live in the
	same country, we discovered the existence of each other
	today. So much for our communication skills. 

	<p /> The GET organizes a meeting near Paris (May 29) and
	invited me so that we can figure out how the Savannah and GET
	can work together. I'm not sure if pure/source will be able to
	attend this meeting. I will contact Jean-Pierre Laisné of
	Linbox to invite him, Bernard Lang is far too busy at that
	time. 

	<p /> This was a rich day. Stéphane Bortzmeyer asked for information
	on the status of the Emacs contribution mode. He says that one can
	only contribute to the Emacs core if he assigns the copyright of his
	code to the Free Software Foundation. Stéphane says that this 
	obligation triggered endless disputes and that it is a real problem.
	I'm absolutely not aware of this and will have to dig the Emacs
	history to find out and give an appropriate answer. It's not 
	something I can do currently because the student room in which
	I'm typing the report is not connected to the outside world. 

	<p /> Good night all ;-)
	<p />
	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p />

        <p>Now, the report by Pascal Desroche for may 17th :</p>

        <p>In the morning - well, someone needs to feed this part. I
        was not awake, due to the evening concert follow-ups ;-) </p>

        <p>In the afternoon was a so called "round table" to gather
        all the participants around general conclusions. The lack of
        participants was mentionned (and evident) but no public debate
        about this point and a little accusation to the Free Software
        community was pointed out, for not making enough efforts to
        communicate "outside it's world". It mostly sounded like the
        speaker didn't understand the work beeing done by the free
        software movement.</p>

        <p>Bernard Lang reminded that there was now a more official
        fight between proprietary software publishers and free
        software, but it seemed that people didn't care much about
        software patents...  More precisely the organizers didn't know
        how to talk about the subject without looking like an aktivist
        so they didn't talk publicly about it. Wednesday afternoon
        during the FSF Europe speech, Frédéric said that the publication
        of the results of the European Commission study on that matter
        should be published real soon (May).</p>

        <p>Some people also heard talking about some 4 days party next
        spring in France. Information can be found at
        <a
        href="http://www.libre-en-fete.net">http://www.libre-en-fete.net</a></p> (french only).

        <p>ENST is trying to launch (buying services from) young
        companies providing software services. One had a booth on the
        place : Inqual. They are developing a web log analyser and
        decided to put it under GNU GPL because it seemed to be the
        most popular thing nowadays. Something I don't like is that
        they are developing everything from scratch and show results
        (referers and keywords ranking) that did not convince me
        instead of adding modifications to software such as
        webalyzer.</p>

        <p>Local logistic was nice, people were kind, food was good,
        shower was warm, and the net connexion was ok. This is a nice
        place for seting up events but they all need to work on what's
        already done instead of trying to make it 'again'. Plus :
        there is a real need of communication supports and actions to
        gather not only Free Software developers/users but also the
        people in charge of the decision for governmental agencies.
        They were only a few (5
        maybe, including some organizers...) although this event was
        set up for them. </p>

        <p>We should talk about concrete projects instead of focusing
        on some general concerns. But sometimes it goes this
        way. Especially when the main speakers are scared about
        things getting away from them.</p>

	<p />
	<i><a href="mailto:pascal@ker.org">Pascal Desroche</a></i>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
