<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Free Software organizations at LSM</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>Free Software organizations at LSM</h2></center>

	<p> People involved in Free Software organizations in Italy,
	Portugal, United States, Canada and France went for diner in
	the old town of Bordeaux (France) after the sessions of <a
	href="http://lsm.abul.org/">LSM</a>.
	  </p>

	<p>Jaime Villate (villate@gnu.org) and Ruben Leote Mendes
	(ruben@nocturno.org) come from Portugal and are involved in
	the <a href="article2001-06-19-01.en.html">creation of a
	democratic</a> organization whose goal is identical to the
	goals of Free Software Foundation. During the past month the
	discussions conducted in Portugal made clear what can be done
	to start a dynamic Free Software movement in a country where
	there is none. Although many if not all countries are
	populated by GNU/Linux user groups, only a few organizations
	promote philosophical aspects of the Free Software
	movement. It became obvious over the years that GNU/Linux user
	groups are complementary to Free Software organizations but do
	not play the same role. 
	  </p>

	<p>In almost every country there is at least one person who
	is a long time supporter of the Free Software movement. His
	interest and involvement started before the Open Source
	movement appeared in 1998 and he was not distracted by it. He
	clearly understands the Free Software movement and that its
	focus on philosophy and freedom is important. The political
	and legal issues that threaten or favor Free Software in his
	country are familiar to him. As an active member of the Free
	Software movement he also participate in various cooperative
	projects and is a contributor to the GNU project.
	</p>

	<p>By reading this profile, it is very likely that you know
	someone who matches it and at the same time it is very
	unlikely that hundreds of people match it in a given country.
	This person, even if he is the only one in his country, is in
	a position to create a Free Software organization. He only
	needs the opportunity to do it. The exact way in which he will
	be involved does not really follow a fixed pattern. For
	instance Frederic Couchet (mad@april.org) started <a
	href="http://www.april.org/">APRIL</a> (democratic non-profit
	organization for Free Software) in 1996 and later convinced
	Loic Dachary (loic@gnu.org) to play an active role in FSF
	Europe. In Spain Jose Marchesi (jemarch@es.gnu.org) started an
	informal group of people who gather around the GNU Spain
	project that is an official part of the GNU project. In Japan
	Masayuki Ida (ida@sipeb.aoyama.ac.jp) is an official
	representative of the Free Software Foundation (United States)
	in his country and it all started when he realized his role
	with Free Software at MIT. Wolfgang Sourdeau
	(wolfgang@contre.com) is creating an organization together
	with Richard M. Stallman in Canada and Hong Feng
	(hongfeng@gnu.org) is doing the same in China.  Georg Greve
	(greve@gnu.org) initiated FSF Europe as a continental
	organization made of national chapters.  This shows us that
	there can be three ways to represent the Free Software
	movement in a given geographical area:
	</p>

	<ul>

	  <li>1) An individual belongs to a Free Software organization
	    in country A and lives in country B</li>

	  <li>2) Creating a democratic Free Software organization</li>

	  <li>3) Creating a Free Software organization that is compatible and
	  approved by another Free Software organization (for instance it can
	  be approved by the FSF, like the FSF Europe was)</li>

	</ul>

	<p>The easiest path depends on the person who is willing to
	take one of these direction. Those three approaches are equally
	valid and good and it is very important that someone undertake this
	effort since the strength of the Free Software movement depends on
	its ability to unite worldwide. Because all those organizations
	share the same philosophy and play by the rules established by
	the Free Software Foundation in 1985, they share a common ground
	that allow them to work together.
	</p>

	<p>Wolfgang Sourdeau (wolfgang@contre.com) lives in Canada and
	is involved in the creation of the Free Software Foundation
	Canada, together with Richard M. Stallman and with the help of
	a lawyer. They started a year ago and it is about to be
	complete.  It took so long because getting the charitable
	status in Canada is a delicate process. The laws regulating
	the charitable status were originally written around 1600 and are
	a bit old fashioned. Basically the organization should be
	active in one of the following fields: religion or education,
	building roads. If the non-profit organization is not involved
	in one of those activities, there is no way to get the
	charitable status. Fortunately the Free Software movement is
	very beneficial to the education field and the Free Software
	Foundation Canada was able to apply. However there is a need for
	a few more members who are long time supporters of the Free
	Software movement to start the activity.
	  </p>

	<p>Leandro Noferini (lnoferin@cybervalley.org) is a founding
	member of the <a
	href="http://www.softwarelibero.org/">ASSOLI</a> organization
	in Florence, Italy. ASSOLI was created by 16 members from all
	around Italy (mostly from Torino, Pisa, Pavia, Padova) in
	November 2000, to focus on Free Software issues. One of the
	most important issues that ASSOLI is dealing with is the <a
	href="http://www.softwarelibero.org/docs/siae-en.shtml">Stamp
	Law</a>. At present this law requires that every software must
	be registered to the SIAE to get a stamp that must
	be put on the medium that contain the software. Although the
	law has been voted, the practical implementation was not
	defined by the administration yet. The Italian press
	criticizes the fuzziness of the law that does not define what
	is a software and therefore lead to implementation problems
	apparently impossible to solve. ASSOLI is trying to raise the
	issue of Free Software that is completely ignored by the
	law. ASSOLI met with the creator of the law who assumes that every
	software ever copied on a medium involves a financial
	transaction and a contract. There is a need to raise interest
	in the media to block the actual implementation that would
	paralyze the Free Software movement in Italy. ASSOLI need to
	be as efficient as possible on this delicate subject. Although
	the FSF Europe <a
	href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/siae/siae.en.html">publishes a
	text written by ASSOLI</a>, it could relay information and
	raise interest in other countries. This problem is purely
	local to Italy but if other countries do not help them to the
	best they could, they cannot expect to get help when something
	really nasty happen to them in the future. ASSOLI prepared a
	press release about the dangers of the Stamp Law and Leandro
	will forward this press release to the FSF Europe so that it
	can be broadcasted in Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, France,
	Sweden and United Kingdom. That would be the first step of
	cooperation between the FSF Europe and ASSOLI.
	  </p>

	<p> Bradley M. Kuhn (bkuhn@gnu.org) is the Vice President of
	the Free Software Foundation. Since the organization exists in
	the United States since 1985, it does not face any creation
	problems :-) However, it turns out that there is no democratic
	organization that promotes Free Software in the United
	States. There are hundreds of GNU/Linux user groups (20 of
	them actually using the terms of GNU/Linux and Free Software
	instead of Linux and Open Source). It would be very beneficial
	if an organization appears in the United States to complement
	the action of the Free Software Foundation, in the same way as
	APRIL complements the action of the FSF Europe in France.
	  </p>

	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc
	Dachary</a></i>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
