<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
      <title>MandrakeSoft will inform users about software patents issues</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	English | <a href="article2001-06-26-01.fr.html">French</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<div align="center"><h2>MandrakeSoft will inform users about
	software patents issues : a program against software patents</h2></div>

	<p/>Tuesday, June 26, Richard M. Stallman (President of the <a
	href="http://www.fsf.org/">FSF</a>) and Jacques Le Marois (CEO
	of Mandrake) met in Paris to talk about software patents.
	Richard M. Stallman suggested to Jacques Le Marois that a
	detailed information about the dangers of software patents be
	displayed to every user of a Mandrake distribution. The user
	would then be given the choice to declare readiness to take
	part in some actions against software patents. Jacques Le
	Marois agreed on the principle that this program is set up for
	the next Mandrake release.

	<p/>During the installation of <a
	href="http://www.mandrakesoft.com/">Mandrake</a> on a new
	computer, a specific screen displaying an informational text
	about <a href="http://petition.eurolinux.org/reference/">the
	dangers of software patents</a> will be inserted.  Emphasis
	will be put on the very fact that Free Software is endangered
	by software patents.  A GNU/Linux distribution such as
	Mandrake could disappear if the biggest software patents owners
	decided to fight using that weapon.  Richard M. Stallman
	insisted on the need for staying aware of <a
	href="http://www.fsf.org/philosophy/hague.html">the implications
	caused by modifications from the Hague treaty</a>.  This
	treaty could allow court decisions made in the United States
	(where software patents are legal) to be applied in Europe
	(where software patents are not legal).

	<p/>During this installation step of the Mandrake
	distribution, the operator will be able to choose whether this
	page will be displayed to every subsequent new user whenever
	he logs in to the system for the first time.  In order to gather
	sensibilized people, it will be possible to subscribe to a
	notification system (either anonymously or visible by
	everyone) that sends action proposals or invitations to events
	aiming at fighting software patents. The <a
	href="http://petition.eurolinux.org/">EuroLinux</a> initiative
	already has lots of very precise informations and many
	subscribers; the idea is to create a complementary movement
	inviting people to act massively..

	<p/>The next weeks will permit to discuss with the people who
	are currently acting against software patents so as to exactly
	determine how this initiative can take place within their
	strategy as well as to complete these in a useful way.  Richard
	M. Stallman has suggested himself for writing articles to
	support that movement.  With support from <a
	href="http://petition.eurolinux.org/">EuroLinux</a> and the
	large broadcast insured by Mandrake, we might well notice an
	important mobilization during the next couple of months.

	<p/>
	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->








