<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>LSM: Copyright, law and legal maintainability</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>

	<center><h2>LSM: Copyright, law and legal maintainability</h2></center>

	<p>
	  Lecture of 11 July 2002 at <a
	  href="http://lsm.abul.org/">LSM</a> by Georg Greve.
	</p>

	<p>
	  I will talk about often neglected aspects: the legal
	  side. I hope you'll understand it is important and
	  should be taken care of.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Alternative title would be "What every hacker should
	  know".
	</p>

	<p>
	  I'll talk about licenses, granting freedom, protecting
	  freedom and destabilizing factors.
	</p>

	<p>
	  What is free software ? Free for freedom, not price.  (List
	  the four freedom). And freedom through copyright because
	  copyright allows licensing and licensing grants freedom.
	</p>

	<p>
	  How licensing gives us freedom ? How does it work ? 
	  It has weak and strong points. What are they ? 
	</p>

	<p>
	  Here are <a
	  href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#GPLCompatibleLicenses">GNU
	  GPL compatible licenses</a>. There are three models : strong
	  copyleft which vaccinates software, middle such as the LGPL,
	  and the weak method that allow you to do whatever you want
	  such as the BSD.  All Free Software programs are in on of
	  these areas.
	</p>

	<p>
	  How do licenses grant freedom ? Licenses do not exist in
	  empty space. They refer to the legal system we live in.
	  They are different from country to country but are vastly
	  compatible. Licenses are always interpreted on the basis
	  of the legal system. It is built by lawyers and politicians
	  and influenced by lobbying. And legal systems are not static,
	  they change. 
	</p>

	<p>
	  Example from germany: it began with a worthy cause. Protect
	  musicians from the record industry playing them dirty
	  tricks. The goal with to arrange a situtation where do not
	  have to sign "slavery" contracts. The publishers control the
	  industry and force musicians to sign contracts that are bad
	  for them.  This fact was recognized and a professor of law
	  started to write new laws to protect musicians.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The new law said that you should give adequate monetary 
	  compensation. Of course you also transfer rights when dealing
	  with software. Free Software is considered as a gift because
	  there is no money involved. But if it's a gift and rights 
	  are assigned to a company, under the new law, what is the
	  adequate compensation ? 
	</p>

	<p>
	  FSF Europe and iFROSS proposed a change of this law and it
	  was changed according to the recommendations made in January
	  2002 and enacted in April 2002. Free Software is now safe
	  and it shows that legal systems can be influenced.
	</p>

	<p>
	  We need to get in touch with the legal and political people.
	  FSF Europe will keep doing it. However, no protection is
	  ever perfect. We may not be always successfull. It is
	  possible that changes will affect the legal status of Free
	  Software. It is therefore essential to maintain the license.
	  The possibility of re-licensing must be maintainted.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The licenses protecting freedom. Why copyleft ? Because those
	  who do not value their freedom are bound to lose it. Attacks
	  on freedom are usually based on legal proceedings. We need to
	  defend ourselves when attacked. What should we do to defend
	  ourselves ?
	</p>

	<p>
	  When someone violate licenses, it often is a mistake. The
	  first thing you should do is to explain they did a mistake
	  and show them how to fix it. When two companies are in
	  conflict, we can help them settle the statement. Do they
	  still infringe ? A lawyer can send them a letter. If it does
	  not work, maybe a public statement would. Then, last resort
	  is to go to court.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The reason for not making it public in the first place is
	  that it's often a genuine mistake. You'll damage the image
	  of the company and teach them nothing. Other companies will
	  not come to you in the future.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Michael Opdenacker: when a company includes GNU GPL programs
	  in their own program, are they willing to release their
	  whole work under a Free Software license ?
	</p>

	<p>
	  Georg Greve: that's not what usually happens. It's worth asking
	  them but if that is not successfull they can't distribute the
	  program.
	</p>

	<p>
	  All this requires someone taken seriously who's willing and
	  determined to go to court. The chances of success of next
	  steps depends on how seriously the people dealing with the
	  issue are taken. The infringer must know that.  The FSF has
	  been doing this for years.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Loïc Dachary: people must also be very aware that they can
	  be forgiven for past mistakes if they do the right thing.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The destabilizing factor partly comes from the fact that
	  Free Software destabilize the legal system. For example,
	  dynamic linking was unknown when GPLv2 was written. We need
	  to re-evaluate the licenses as the legal system evolves. The
	  freedom to relicense is the legal equivalent of the freedom
	  to improve the code.
	</p>

	<p>
	  A solution would be to have a globally active fiduciary
	  because in the long term, if you lose the right to improve
	  your code it does not matter how technically advanced.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The Fiduciary License Agreement (FLA) is in three
	  parts. There is a transfert of exclusive exploitation rights
	  (copyright), from the author to FSF Europe. The FSF Europe
	  grants unlimited amount of single exploitation rights. The
	  FSF Europe is only allowed to release Free Software.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The origins of copyright. It gave a limited monopoly to
	  publishers.  The first time authors had the right to hold
	  copyright was in 1710. It is linked to "Droit d'auteur" and
	  human rights philosophers. Copyright and Authorship right
	  was split under the french revolution. This is specific to
	  Europe and rights cannot be transfered completly (moral
	  rights). In anglo-american laws, moral rights are not
	  enforced. It was previously necessary (before 1978) in the
	  US to register works.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The effect on FLA. Most agreements were written for US law
	  and they aim at transfering everything. They are not invalid
	  in Europe but if you transfert everything you don't go in
	  details. In the US the fact that you don't specify exactly
	  what you transfert and it works. In Europe it will be
	  understood as transfert of exploitation rights. The court
	  will always try to protect the author (question of human
	  rights). The court might try to make the case that it was
	  not the intention of the author that the software could be
	  used in this way. Therefore fuzziness does not work in
	  Europe.
	</p>

	<p>
	  The FLA will be released when it's ready (smile). Even when
	  published, it will be open for review. What to look for in a
	  fiduciary ? Which precautions against a takeover of the
	  fiduciary by a third party ? What membership rules ? Does
	  the fiduciary has legal expertise ? Is the fiduciary globaly
	  active and get inputs from sources worldwide ? Is this
	  fiduciary trying to act globaly alone or is it part of a
	  network ? Are there a not-too-big number of partners ?  Will
	  the fiduciary be taken seriously on  legal matters ?
	</p>

	<p>
	  Which fiduciary to choose ? Choose the fiduciary <b>you</b>
	  prefer.  It could be the FSF Europe. The FLA can be a useful
	  reference.  The FLA will be used by the FSF for European
	  copyright assignments and Apache is interested by it.
	  Whatever you do, do not ignore the issue of legal
	  maintainability.
	</p>

	<p>
	  We learned other leasons. We have to raise our voices and make
	  sure legislations are beneficial to us. We have to make sure
	  someone ensures legal maintainability. We have to publicize
	  the awareness for such issues.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Loïc Dachary: it would make more sense that all copyright
	  assignments are assigned to the FSF. It would make it
	  stronger instead of diluting copyright assignments among
	  distinct entities.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Georg Greve: you don't want to put all eggs in the same basket.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Michael Opdenacker: what about liability ? 
	</p>

	<p>
	  Georg Greve: it is an issue. In germany liability is strong.
	  The waranty disclaimer is void in germany. In this case you
	  get the default behaviour written in the law which is worse
	  than what you could get if the waranty disclaimer was
	  written in another way.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Loïc Dachary: Copyright assignements that do not contain
	  anything regarding moral rights are valid in Europe. If it
	  was not the case, all contracts involving copyright
	  assignments in Europe would be void since I don't know of
	  any that mention moral rights. That is not to say the
	  proposed copyright assignment (FLA) is not nice, only that
	  it's not required in Europe. 
	</p>

	<p/>
	<i><a href="mailto:loic@gnu.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p/>

	<p><b>Update :</b>The slides of Georg Greve's presentation are
	<a
	href="http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/LSM-2002/index.html">available
	here</a>.</p>

      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
