<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Hourtin Summer University</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English 
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>
	<center><h2>Hourtin Summer University</h2></center>

	<p/> A round table on Free Software was organized by the
	annual <a
	href="http://www.crepac.com/calendrier/evenement.asp?numero=327">summer
	university at Hourtin</a>, France. This event is the
	traditional meeting where government officials meet with
	companies and non profit organizations on the general subject
	of information society. Frédéric Couchet managed for us to
	be invited at the round table to speak in the name of the Free
	Software movement.

	<p /> The discussions were bound to be controversial, given
	the fact that Olivier Ezratty from Microsoft is among the
	speakers. Pierre Breese is also present and is a well known
	advocate in favor of software patents.

	<p/> In the following people said Linux when meaning
	GNU/Linux, except Frédéric Couchet, of course. I fixed this to
	avoid confusion.  I found remarkable that only Logiciel Libre
	was used during the round table.  The conference was in french
	but I wrote my notes in English to avoid the translation
	effort. I apologize to french people who cannot read english
	easily, I feel it is important that non french speaking people
	in Europe can read this protocol and had not the courage to do
	the french version.

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader (Moderator)</i>: The title on the program is
	'advantage and usages' but on my notes it was 'peculiarity and
	drawbacks' which is quite representative of the confusion that
	exists on the subject. I'm happy to have Mr. Ezratty who will
	show how Free Software can be integrated on an apparently
	closed platform. (he introduced all the people, only adding a
	word on Mr. Ezratty). In my professional activity I face the
	Free Software alternative. My goal is to end this debate
	knowing what to do with Free Software.

	<p/><i>M. Joly (IBM)</i>: We have a focus on GNU/Linux. We have
	servers (45% of the turnover) infrastructure software and services. We need
	OS and GNU/Linux is a good one. We saw a trend that influences
	the market and we felt compelled to provide this to our
	customers and at the same time contribute to the evolution of
	GNU/Linux.  <p/> IBM goes to Free Software and specifically
	GNU/Linux to provide usable hardware. 

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader</i>: A software is not only running on a PC.
	Embedded software in various devices also. This grows and companies
	are eager to conquer this market. Could F. Couchet explain what
	a Free Software is ? 

	<p/><i>F. Couchet</i>: The FSF was created in 85 to offer an
	alternative to proprietary software. You can use free
	software, study how it works in its source form, redistribute
	them as you do with recipes, modify it match your needs. This
	creates an economical activity that is independant and
	lively. The GNU project is a philosophical project.
	MandrakeSoft is a french company that combines the
	philosophical aspect and the economical activity.

	<p/> Free Software is based on copyright law to establish 
	a best match between the will of authors and the interest of
	the public. Software patents threaten this but this will be
	the subject of tomorrow's speech.

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader</i>: Some ministery create portals to help
	people understand how and why we should switch to Free Software.
	I question myself. Update of licenses cost my money. But the
	stability of Free Software is problematic. And the freedom to
	modify is something we don't really need, do we ?

	<p/><i>B. Jelowicki (Education)</i>: I'm not sure I can answer
	this. I came here because the title was 'advantage of free
	software' and I asked you to introduce Free Software advocates
	because only proprietary software advocates were invited. I
	don't understand the problematic of this debate and I still do
	not understand where this is going.

	<p/> For education the advantage of gratis is pushed but is
	not the most important. Teachers produce software and use them
	in creative ways. We face a philosophical and independance
	problematic, not an accounting problem. For companies the
	network installation of schools is a big market and there are
	not many alternatives. Our resources are limited.

	<p/> The advantage of Free Software is that it can be studied
	where proprietary software cannot. Most software produced by 
	education are not very wide spread and it would make a lot of
	sense to make them Free Software. Some of them could become 
	the base of an economical activity. 

	<p/> We currently teach to students the Microsoft tools and not
	Free Software tools. Why is it so ? 

	<p/> Introducing Free Software in education is nowadays only 
	powered by volunteers and it would be very beneficial if teachers
	were given some time and background on their paid time to educate
	themselves.

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader</i>: I'd like to say that the original panel
	of speaker included IBM and Bull who have an implication in Free
	Software.

	<p/><i>B. Pinna (Bull)</i>: If Bull was to make business on OS, we
	would be in trouble. This is not the goal. We want to be with
	our customers and we acknowledge that Free Software is an
	alternative because it represents a market. We say to our
	clients that in some cases Free Software is an alternative.
	What Free Software will be used for in governement and companies ?
	We recommend it for infrastructure.

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader</i>: Microsoft will not speak last. We do
	not deliver the chritian to the lions at the end. 
	Proprietary software and Free Software can be co-exist, can you tell
	us more about this ?

	<p/><i>O. Ezratty (Microsoft)</i>: Free Software is a
	phenomenon that is visible since five years. This is a
	peculiar competition. There are juridical and ethical
	components. There are also economical considerations.

	<p/> In education Free Software is an advantage. Microsoft must 
	change its behaviour to adapt to this. 

	<p/> When evaluating software we count the gain of time they
	bring and their use value, this is our scale of values.

	<p/> Co-exist ? How ? We have a negative image. We adopt standards
	and we contribute to standards. We face a fast evolving Internet.
	All we do around XML is to open Internet. Why ? Because we want
	to grow the market. In this respect we have a common ground 
	with Free Software.

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader</i>: What about intellectual property law ?

	<p/><i>P. Breese</i>: I use Free Software because it's a good
	software. Not because it's Free Software. I also share the 
	definition given by F. Couchet. Patents are not contradictory
	with this definition, it allows modification with the software
	with the agreement of the author. 

	<p/><i>L. Dachary</i> (interrupt): This is non-sense, this is
	contradictory with the Free Software definition.

	<p/><i>P. Breese</i>: What about software patents ? This is an
	ancient reality. 40 years ago a patent was registered
	(P. Breese gave an example I did not have time to write down).
	Bull sold software patent usage for millions. In 70' software
	was excluded from patentable inventions.

	<p/><i>P. Breese was interrupted a few times, my notes are not
	  complete</i>

	<p/><i>L. Dachary (talking to B. Pinna)</i>: How do you handle
	the fact that chosing between Free Software and proprietary
	software involves an ethical choice ? Do you direct your
	client to organizations that are competent in ethical matters
	? If not how do you handle the ethical aspect related to these
	choice when speaking to government and education departements ?

	<p/><i>B. Pinna</i>: We do not impose our offer. Our motivation
	is not to make money on software. We also develop Free Software,
	we are not against it. We cannot be accused to be partial. For
	instance we have people using Jonas and they were really happy. 

	<p/><i>F. Couchet (talking to P. Breese)</i>: the
	technology academy made a study on patentability without
	interviewing Eurolinux, only Microsoft, IBM and others. This
	is outrageous.

	<p/><i>F. Pelegrini (ABUL)</i>: our theories are not patentable and
	software patents are a way to patent them. I do not want that.

	<p/><i>Anonymous (talking to O. Ezratty)</i>: I'd like to say
	that in foreign countries the role of Free Software is of
	major importance. A Microsoft subsidiary installed itself in
	oceania and chased the pirates and bankrupted companies.  The
	Free Software is an advantage, it excludes piracy.

	<p/><i>H. Le Guyader</i>: What Free Software do you use ?

	<p/><i>Anonymous</i>: Apache mainly.

	<p/><i>O. Ezratty</i>: intellectual property must be
	protected.  There can be accidents when doing so. A non
	material object has a cost in the same way as a material
	object, this must not be forgotten.

	<p/><i>Anonymous</i>: I'd like to know if at IBM and Bull you
	use Free Software internally. You also provide services, what
	is the share of services ?

	<p/><i>M. Joly</i>: There is no offer for end user applications, 
	we only use infrastructure Free Software. Free Software is not
	the answer to all needs.

	<p/><i>B. Pinna</i>: We do not use Free Software for applications
	because there are no software available. What is our share of
	service on Free Software ? I don't know. 

	<p/><i>F. Couchet</i>: There do exist applications for end users,
	it's not only for infrastructure. 

	<p/><i>Anonymous (proprietary software CEO)</i>: How do you
	earn money with Free Software ?

	<p/><i>F. Couchet</i>: The economy switches from selling licenses
	to selling services. The company contribute to the software and
	people time is sold. 

	<p/><i>O. Ezratty</i>: Microsoft is 12% of the development in
	the world.  RedHat earn money but does not escape the
	concentration phenomenon since they represent 50% of the
	GNU/Linux boxes sold in the world.

	<p/><i>J. Peyratout (ABULEDU)</i>: I use Free Software only,
	in a primary school.  We have no money and we know nothing
	about computing. We face a problem. I joined ABUL and AFUL,
	two organizations who offered me to solve this problem. It was
	two years ago. A tool was developped for our need, on our
	spare time. And we saw that it would take a lot more time.
	Therefore we searched for finances and we searched for
	professionals. I already paid the people because I needed
	this, now what harm does it do if people copy and use it ?

	<p/> We kept Microsoft products and they are slowly
	disapearing. Mainly because children have troubles using
	Microsoft products, because of closed standards.

	<p/><i>P. Jarillon (ABUL)</i>: I tried to get the RTF and saw
	that the standard was later modified unexpectedly. Do you plan
	to modify other standards in this way ?

	<p/><i>O. Ezratty</i>: Standards are evolving, this is a natural
	thing. I cannot really answer. But XML will not be modified in 
	this way, this is the interoperability language. 

	<p/>
	<i><a href="mailto:loic@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p />
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
