<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Xerox contributes to Free Software</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English | <a href="article2002-06-04-01.fr.html">French</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>

	<center><h2>Xerox contributes to Free Software</h2></center>

	<p>
	  As part of his work with Xerox, Laurent Julliard participated
	  in the installation of a worldwide internal source
	  code-sharing infrastructure called CodeX (Code
	  eXchange). CodeX is using the same code base as <a
	  href="http://savannah.gnu.org/">Savannah</a>
	  (SourceForge-2.0) and was constantly improved in the past
	  year.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Under the impulse of Laurent Juillard, Xerox has recently
	  taken the decision to contribute all their changes back to
	  the Free Software community through Savannah. This allows
	  Savannah to benefit from a revived code base and allows it
	  to enable features that were previously deactivated because
	  of the lack of resources. The new Bug Tracking System is the
	  first significant contribution. Others will follow.
	</p>

	<p>
	  While Xerox is the copyright holder of the modifications of
	  the SourceForge code base, the FSF received official
	  documents stating that these modifications are released
	  under the GNU GPL. Of course, Laurent Julliard, like any
	  other volunteer contributing to Savannah may become less
	  active in the future and someone else will have to continue
	  the maintenance of the code base. But the important point is
	  that the improvements integrated in Savannah when this
	  happens will be available under the terms of the GNU GPL.
	</p>

	<p>
	  Some of you may remember that the creation of the Free
	  Software Foundation partly lies in a <a
	  href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/shouldbefree.html">discord
	  between Xerox and RMS</a>. Twenty years later, Xerox made a
	  significant step to burry this historical disagreement.
	</p>

	<p />	
	<a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/??">The full BTS announcement</a>

	<p />
	<i><a href="mailto:loic@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p/>
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
