<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2015-09-17">

	<head>
    <title>FSFE presents our evaluation of the EU Parliament copyright report</title>
	</head>

    <body>
      <h1>FSFE presents our evaluation of the EU Parliament copyright report</h1>
		
		<p newsteaser="yes">On July 6th, the European Parliament voted
		on a report with a number of recommendations for copyright reform.
		We present today <a href="/activities/policy/eu/20150917-Assessment-Of-The-Report-On-InfoSoc.en.html">our
		evaluation</a> of how this could imapact Free Software.</p>

		<p>A first draft of the report was written by MEP Julia Reda
		(Pirate Party) and consisted of a number of very sensible proposals
		to adapt copyright law to today's challenges. At the time
		<a href="we /activities/policy/eu/20150605-Comments-On-Reda-Report.html">
		contacted</a> the Members of the European Parliament to highlight
		the best feautures and suggest some improvments.</p>
		
		<p>After going through a considerable amount of opposition and
		amendements, the European Parliament approved the final version
		of this document. Even if the report proposes some improvements
		to the current legislative framework, it presents various setbacks
		from the original drafts and does not manage to completely solve
		the major problems with the current copyright legislation. In
		particular:</p>
		
		<ul>
			<li>the long due reform of copyright exception is now
			limited to the private copy</li>
			<li>Digital Restriction Manangement (DRM) can still
			unjustly keep exception from operating</li>
			<li>publicly funded works are not contributed to the
			public domain, nor published under free licences</li>
		</ul>

		<p>The Legal Affairs committee will decide on the final shape of the report before the vote in plenary session in July. FSFE has provided <a href="/activities/policy/eu/20150605-Comments-On-Reda-Report.html">input to MEPs</a> on a number of points that we consider crucial to copyright reform.</p>
		
		<p>FSFE's input to the members of the Legal Affairs committee focuses on the following points:</p>	
		
		<p>
		<ul>
			<li>The public domain should be actively safeguarded, extended and opened to authors who want to publish  their work directly onto it.</li>
			<li>Works (software included) produced by public sector should be made available to the public for use and modification.</li>
			<li>Digital Restriction Management (DRM) should not hinder the actual exercise of exceptions and limitations. Source code of such technologies must be published to enable interoperability and respect of user's privacy.</li>		
		</ul>
		</p>

		<p>For further information please visit
		<a href="http://copywrongs.eu/">copywrongs.eu</a> or
		<a href="https://juliareda.eu/2015/06/reda-report-adopted-a-turning-point-in-the-copyright-debate/">Julia
		Reda's website</a>. You can also directly read the <a href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?type=TA&amp;reference=P8-TA-2015-0273&amp;language=EN">report</a>.
		</p>
    </body>
    
    
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="DRM">DRM</tag>
		<tag>Policy</tag>
		<tag content="European Parliament">EuropeanParliament</tag>
		<tag content="Public Administration">PublicAdministration</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
