<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2018-10-08">
	<head>
	<title>FSFE convinced 1125 public administrations to remove 
	proprietary software advertisements</title>
	</head>
		<body>
<h1>FSFE convinced 1125 public administrations to remove proprietary
software advertisements</h1>
<p newsteaser="yes">
	<div class="p-summary">After six years of activity, the 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.en.html">PDFreaders campaign</a>
 is coming to a close this month as one of our most successful campaigns.</div></p>
<p>The campaign began in 2009 with the intent of removing advertisements 
for proprietary PDF reader software from public institutions' websites. 
To start it all off, volunteers submitted  2104 "bugs", or instances of 
proprietary PDF software being directly promoted by public authorities,
and the FSFE <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.en.html">listed</a> them 
 online. Since then, hundreds of Free Software activists took action by 
 writing to the relevant public institutions and calling for changes to 
 their websites. We received a lot of positive feedback from the institutions
  thanking us for our letters, and to date, 1125 out of the 2104 websites
 (53%) edited their websites and by removing links to proprietary PDF readers,
 or adding links to Free Software PDF readers.</p>
<p>
In addition to writing letters, FSFE also collected signatures for a 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">petition</a>
calling for an end to proprietary software products on government
websites. 90 organizations, 63 businesses, and 2731 individuals
signed the petition in support of using open source PDF readers on 
government websites.</p>
 <p>Furthermore, we were able to push for a change at both national and
    international levels.</p>
    
    <p>
	<ul><li> In Germany, 
    <a href="http://gruen-digital.de/2012/03/document-freedom-day-kleine-anfrage-zur-werbung-fuer-adobe-reader-eingereicht/">national parties</a>
    gave statements in favor of free PDF readers and the German Government
    itself has recommended the usage of our text snippet in their
    <a href="http://www.cio.bund.de/Web/DE/Architekturen-und-Standards/Migrationsleitfaden-und-Migrationshilfen/migrationsleitfaden_node.html">migration guide</a>.
    </li>
    <li> In the EU: the European Parliament 
    <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/parliamentary-questions-eu.en.html">directly asked</a>
    the European Commission what were the reasons for advertising a 
    specific software and which steps were taken to solve this problem.</li>
    <li> In 2011 one of our pdfreaders.org coordinators, <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/polina/">Hannes Hauswedell,
    was in contact with Google</a>, asking them to release the PDF reader included in 
    their Chrome browser as Free Software. Finally, in May 2014, the 
    <a href="https://twitter.com/nasko/status/469595752734269440">
	pdfium sources were published openly</a>, and while FSFE's enquiry 
	might not have been the only reasons they were released, it marks an
	important change for the widespread adoption of Free Software PDF readers.</li>
    </ul>
</p>
<p>
	<blockquote>
"This success would not have been possible without the help and hard work
 from our volunteers and the support from our donors. <bold>Thank you!</bold> 
 While many public and private web-sites still promote proprietary readers, 
 the level of awareness has changed significantly during our campaign 
 and now it should be much easier for you to approach the remaining web-site 
 administrators. Also most internet users today already use 
 Free Software when they open a PDF file in their browser --a huge difference
  from 2009!" says Hannes Hauswedell who started the campaign."Of course 
  work still remains and we invite you to keep on reminding (public) 
  adminstrators to use Open Standards and not recommend proprietary software.
   And with your support, we too,  will continue to fight for a web that
    respects its users privacy and freedom!"
 </blockquote></p>
 <p>To <a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/follow-up.en.html"> get involved</a>
 you can use our <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.en.html">sample letter</a>
 to send to the relevant public administration, or you can write one of your own. 
 Just make sure to include where to find a list of
 <a href="http://pdfreaders.org">Free Software PDF readers</a> that could 
 replace the link from their website.</p>
 <p>A special thanks again to the activists, volunteers, and donors who 
 helped make this campaign a success!</p>
 
 </body>
 
 <sidebar news="PDFreaders" promo="about-fsfe">
 <h2>More about PDF readers</h2>
 <ul>
	<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders.en.html">PDFreaders campaign</a></li>
	<li><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.en.html">List of reported institutions</a></li>
	<li><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">The petition</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">Model Letter</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">List of Free Software PDF readers</a></li>
	</ul>
 </sidebar>
 
	<tags>
		<tag content="Public Administration">PublicAdministration</tag>
		<tag content="PDFreaders">PDFreaders</tag>
		<tag content="Campaign">Campaigns</tag>
	</tags>
</html>
