<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2015-10-28">
  <head>
  <title>FSFE signs association joint letter for terminal device freedom</title>
  </head>

  <body class="press release">

<h1>FSFE signs association joint letter for terminal device freedom</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Together with 9 other civil and economic 
organisations the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) sent a letter 
to numerous members of the German Bundestag concerning the compulsory 
routers issue at the present Wednesday. The letter is supposed to 
highlight the importance of passing the bill for freedom of terminal 
devices in telecommunication.</p>

<p>On the 4th of November the four parliament committees Economy and 
Energy, Law and Consumer Protection, Traffic and Digital 
Infrastructure, and Digital Agenda will consult about the bill „for 
selection and connection of telecommunication terminal devices“. The 
132 representatives who sit in the committees will bear a special 
responsibility since it is in their power to save the rights of 
consumers and protect small and medium-sized businesses.</p>

<blockquote>
<p>„We welcome the Federal Government drafting a bill which can 
effectively eradicate compulsory routers“, says Matthias Kirschner, 
FSFE's President. „The current status of compulsory routers is harmful 
for both citizens and economy. This fact has to be known to all 
representatives cross-party. Now we need a quick and unmodified 
implementation of the drafted law.“</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The bill is the outcome of a long discussion about so-called 
compulsory routers. These forbid internet users to use a terminal 
device of their choice and force them to always have the provider's 
device in the own home network. This widespread practise is a threat to 
security, privacy, and independence of all internet users and has 
negative effects on free and fair competition of manufacturers.</p>

<p>Despite the unanimous opinion of experts, consumer protectors, and 
politicians some members of the Federal Council aligned with the few 
current bill's opponents. In doing so they adapted technically 
inconsistent and long-disproved arguments of internet providers and 
network carriers. Up to now the Federal Government rejected the 
Council's criticism as not reasonable.</p>

<blockquote>
<p>„Today's letter shall prevent a repetition of the Council's 
disappointing reaction. With a broad alliance of many-faceted 
supporters of terminal device freedom we ask the committees' members to 
put those basic user rights as soon as possible and without any rotten 
compromises into law“, says Max Mehl, FSFE's Germany Coordinator. „As 
of today no representative can plead lack of knowledge of the 
importance of terminal device freedom for the independent usage and 
security of the internet.“</p>
</blockquote>

<p>You can view the depersonalised version of the sent association 
joint letter <a 
href="/activities/routers/files/20151027_Verbaendeschreiben.pdf">here</a>. 
Additionally we listed all important events in the course of the 
compulsory routers debate separately <a 
href="/activities/routers/timeline.html">on our website</a>.</p>


</body>
 
<tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag content="Competition">Competition</tag>
  <tag content="Germany">Germany</tag>
  <tag content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="Compulsory Routers">Routers</tag>
</tags>

</html>
