<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2018-10-08">
	<head>
	<title>Revisiting the Sony Rootkit fiasco 10 years later</title>
	</head>
	
		<body class="press release">
			
	<!---Please do not translate until later-->	
	
<h1>Revisiting the Sony Rootkit fiasco 10 years later</h1>

<!-- TODO: should we have something like this at the beginning? -->

<p>Today the Free Software Foundation Europe publishes information about the
Sony Rootkit, which was discovered on 31 October 2005. We provide background
about the attack on people's computers and context information.</p>

<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

<p>Imagine you buy a music CD in a store. You go home and put it into your
computer to listen to it. Without your knowledge a program is installed.  This
program secretly checks whether you start programs to copy CDs, and if so
forces them to stop. It also slows down your computer and open security holes
which can be used by others to attack you.</p>

<p>That is what happened 10 years ago if you bought one of 25 million music CDs
from Sony. This attack by Sony on people's computers was discovered on 31
October 2005 and was later referred as the "Sony rootkit". It affected more
than 550,000 networks in more than one hundred countries, including thousands
of US military and defense networks.</p>

<p>Sony's rootkit provides a good example what companies are willing to do to
restrict users' behaviour with technical means. Even though the Sony rootkit is
now 10 years old, hurtful digital restrictions are everywhere. They are shipped
in PCs, laptops, netbooks, ebook readers, audio players, cars, coffee machines,
and other devices. As Digital Restriction Management (DRM) prevents uses of the
device which the manufacturer does not intend, they can control and limit what
a general purpose IT machine may be used for. In case of IT devices with
internet access, they can alter these usage restrictions at any time without
even informing the device owner. As a result, IT manufacturers can take away
common rights owners of products usually receive at will.</p>

<blockquote><p>"Manufacturers should never be in a position where they
permanently control the devices they produce. Those who own a device, be it
individuals, companies, public or non-public organisations, should be the ones
who can control it and legally use it." say FSFE's president Matthias
Kirschner. "Such restrictions limit a sustained growth in the development and
use of software, for which unrestricted general purpose computers are
crucial."</p></blockquote>


<h2>What Sony did</h2>

<!-- TODO transform foot notes into links -->

<p>On 31 October 2005, tech security expert Mark Russinovich published his
discovery on his blog <a class="fn" id="fnref1" href="#fn1">1</a> about a piece
of spyware, known as a rootkit, that secretly installed itself on his computer
when he added a recent Sony CD album to his computer.</p>

<p>When a Sony BMG CD was played on a computer, users would have to download
Sony's proprietary music player, in order to listen to the CD. Then Sony
installed a hidden rootkit program and used it to spy on users, their listening
habits, and share that information with Sony, as well as prevent other third
party audio programs from reading the disc.<a class="fn" id="fnref2"
href="#fn2">2</a></p>

<p>The rootkit was secretively installed on user's computer operating systems,
and in the process created additional security flaws which opened the doors for
other, more malicious attacks. Even if user detected the rootkit, safely
uninstalling it without damaging your computer was another problem.<a
href="#fn3" class="fn" id="fnref3">3</a></p>

<p>Sony BMG's president, Thomas Hesse, dismissed the issue completely, and was
quoted saying "Most people, I think, don't even know what a Rootkit is, so why
should they care about it?"<a href="fn4" class="fn" id="fnref4">4</a></p>

<p>Sony later had to reveal that the rootkit was loaded onto roughly 25
million CDs and infected more than 550,000 networks in more than one hundred
countries, including thousands of US military and defense networks.<a
href="fn5" class="fn" id="fnref5">5</a></p>

<p>The press published what companies were secretly
doing to people's personal property and Sony was forced to settle numerous
lawsuits and repair customers' trust as soon as possible. <a href="fn6"
class="fn" id="fnref6">6</a></p>

<p>Despite the fallout of Sony's DRM experiment, 10 years later, restrictions
on users' personal property are more prevalent than ever.  But not just music
or video downloads are restricted, restrictions are commonly found in
legitimately purchased ebooks, video game hardware, and all manner of
proprietary software. It has even found ways into our cars,<a href="fn7"
class="fn" id="fnref7">7</a> and coffee machines.<a href="fn8" class="fn"
id="fnref8">8</a> </p>

<h2>The computer: a general purpose machine</h2>

<p>Technological restrictions on the legitimate use of devices are dangerous
because they are slowly transforming our computers from being general purpose
machines with diverse capabilities, to being a singular device with limited
scope of power. Private companies limit computers' functionality because it is
better for business when users are locked in to a particular service
provider.</p>

<p>When users are locked in by restrictions from content providers and
oppressive copyright legislation, society suffers because people lose out on
the possibilites of innovating and experimenting with new products or services,
as well as  their ability to fix and improve their own devices. By trying to
restrict the use of device or content for one specific case (i.e. unauthorised
copying or to prevent outsiders from accessing the device), companies prevent
to use computer for all other legitimate purposes that users may be entitled
to. This is a major obstacle for future innovations and destroys the computer
as a general purpose machine. Furthermore, these restrictions do not
differentiate between legitimate or illegal manipulations performed on the
computer by its users, imposing blanket constraints on everyone. As a
consequence, no one beside the manufacturer has control over machines that
control our lives, and the data stored on them.</p>

<h2 id="fsfe-demands">FSFE Demands</h2>

<p>FSFE's goal is to ensure that the owners of IT devices can always be in full
and sole control of them. For maintaining sustained growth in the development
and use of software, the broad availability of general purpose computers is
crucial.</p>

<ol>

<li>FSFE demands that before purchasing a device, buyers must be informed
concisely about the technical measures implemented in this device, as well as
the specific usage restrictions and their consequences for the owner.</li>

<li><a href="/news/2015/news-20150506-01.en.html">FSFE and other organisations
are calling on lawmakers to safeguard the right to tinker</a> for everyone.
The right to tinker makes sure that the owner of every device is allowed to
replace or supplement the software in that device if they so choose, thereby
empowering owners to control their own property. To ensure this protection,
FSFE asks the European Commission to propose legislation strengthening computer
owner's rights, by requiring that every computer owner must be enabled to
modify and exchange the software and hardware on any computing device.</li>

<li> It is clear that any right to tinker must also be coupled with a legal
provision that prevents technological restrictions of the same right. The right
to tinker must also be coupled with a legal provision  that prevents
technological restrictions of the same right.  For this reason the FSFE asks
the Commission to propose legislation to ensure that consumers can make use of
digital goods which they have acquired within the full scope of copyright
exceptions and limitations.</li>

</ol>

<!-- Should we remove that part, or include it in the demands list? 
<p>He continues "As we commented on the EU Parliament's copyright reform (Reda
report), some progress is being made towards harmonising restrictions
exceptions in EU legislation that would make it harder for companies to use
digital restrictions on whatever technology they want. Now we ask the
Commission to go even further along this path and make it clear that no
exception to copyright should ever be limited by DRM."</p>
-->

<h2 id="press-contact">Press contact / interview partner</h2>

<div class="box">
  <p>Matthias Kirschner:<a href="mailto:press@fsfeurope.org">press@fsfeurope.org</a> (English, German)<br />
  President Free Software Foundation Europe<br />
  Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br />
  +49-30-27595290</p>
</div>

<p>If you would like to have an interview or answers to your questions
in another languages, please contact us, and we refer you to someone
speaking that language.</p>

<h2 id="restrictions-pictures">Related pictures</h2>

<!-- TODO include a preview of the pictures + add links to the high resolution
version + add information about the license. -->

<ul>
	
<li>
<a href="http://static.fsf.org/nosvn/dbd/2012/day-against-drm/in-chains.png">Day against DRM</a></li>
<ul><li><a href="http://static.fsf.org/nosvn/dbd/2012/day-against-drm/image2.png">Hi-res version</a></li>
<li>Artwork by Brendan Mruk and Matt Lee, Copyright (c) Free Software Foundation,
Inc. This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.</li></ul>

<li><a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Zapped-CD-Art.gif">Zapped CD</a></li>

<li><a href="https://pixabay.com/en/privacy-policy-data-security-445156/">Locked CD</a></li>

<li><a href="https://pixabay.com/en/keyboard-sure-privacy-policy-castle-628703/">Locked keyboard</a></li>

<li><a href="http://www.geograph.org.uk/photo/3478665">Chained library</a></li>

</ul>

<h2 id="related-links">Related links</h2>

<!-- TODO add Boing Boing Timeline, and short descriptions of the links-->

<ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.defectivebydesign.org/">Defective By Design</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://www.eff.org/search/site/DRM">EFF's DRM info database</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://fsfe.org/contribute/spreadtheword#drm-leaflet">DRM.info leaflets</a></li>
</ul>

<!-- TODO remove footnotes and add it as normal links -->

<h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>

<ol>
	<li id="fn1"><a href="http://blogs.technet.com/b/markrussinovich/archive/2005/10/31/sony-rootkits-and-digital-rights-management-gone-too-far.aspx">Russinovich's blog</a></li>
	<li id="fn2"><a href="http://www.technologyreview.com/featuredstory/405741/inside-the-spyware-scandal/page/8/">MIT Technology Review</a></li>
	<li id="fn3"><a href="https://freedom-to-tinker.com/blog/jhalderm/cd-drm-makes-computers-less-secure/">Freedom to Tinker Blog</a></li>
	<li id="fn4"><a href="http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4989260">NPR interviews Hesse</a></li>
	<li id="fn5"><a href="https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2005/11/kaminsky-rootkit-causing-widespread-infection">EFF Deeplinks</a></li>
	<li id="fn6"><a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/4577536.stm">BBC technology news</a></li>
	<li id="fn7"><a href="https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/11/drm-cars-will-drive-consumers-crazy">EFF Deeplinks</a></li>
	<li id="fn8"><a href="http://www.wired.com/2015/05/keurig-k-cup-drm/">Wired Magazine</a></li>
</ol>
</body>

<sidebar promo="our-work">
<!-- TODO update at the end to make sure it is correct -->

	<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
		<li><a href="#press-contact">Press contact / interview partner</a></li>
		<li><a href="#facts-and-context">Facts and context</a></li>
		<li><a href="#fsfe-demands">FSFE demands</a></li>
		<li><a href="#restrictions-pictures">Related pictures</a></li>
		<li><a href="#related-links">Related links</a></li>
	</ul>
	<h2>Related links</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="http://www.defectivebydesign.org/">Defective By Design</a></li>
		<li><a href="https://www.eff.org/search/site/DRM">EFF's DRM info database</a></li>
		<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/contribute/spreadtheword#drm-leaflet">DRM.info leaflets</a></li>
	</ul>
</sidebar>
</html>
