<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2018-05-06">

	<head>
    <title>A restriction on technological restrictions</title>
	</head>

  <!-- please do not yet translate, the version is not yet final -->
   

    <body>
      <h1>A restriction on technological restrictions</h1>
      <h2>The right to install other software on your computing devices</h2>

      <p>Safecast is a global project to map radiation data from around the
      world and release this information openly. When the project just started
      out, they used radiation meters, together with their own custom software
      and a few clever tweaks, to allow anyone to participate in the data
      collection. This kind of ingenuity, the ability to re-purpose or adapt
      existing technology by replacing or supplementing its software, should be
      permitted and encouraged by the law. While Safecast is just one example,
      we all depend on the possibility to install or replace programs that we
      use every day, to increase our security, privacy or performance -- or
      just because we happen to like using a different program on our laptop,
      tablet, phone, router, television, car, or other devices.</p>

      <p>Today at the International Day Against DRM, the undersigned
      organisations are calling on lawmakers to safeguard the right to tinker
      for everyone. To make sure that the owner of every device is allowed to
      replace or supplement the software in that device if they so choose,
      thereby empowering device owners to control their own property. Many
      manufacturers today add technological restrictions that prevent device
      owners from changing their devices, or having someone do so for them.
      This can be in breach of the licenses on the devices (as with Free
      Software/Open Source Software licenses which grant the rights to use,
      study, share, and improve the software for any purpose). It is clear that
      any right to tinker must also be coupled with a legal provision that
      prevents technological restrictions of the same right.</p>

      <p>To successfully guarantee that device owners are in control of their
      own technology, the following organisations ask that the right to tinker
      be garanteed for everyone, and that technological restrictions that
      interfer with this right be limited by law.</p>

    </body>
    
    
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="DRM">DRM</tag>
		<tag content="General Purpose Computing">General Purpose Computing</tag>
    </tags>
    </html>



