<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2019-03-02">

	<head>
		<title>Jonas Öberg joins FSFE as Executive Director</title>
	</head>
	
	<body class="press release">
	
	  <h1>Jonas Öberg joins FSFE as Executive Director</h1>

	  <p newsteaser="yes">FSFE has recruited long-time Free
	  Software activist Jonas Öberg to be the organisation's
	  Executive Director. He joins the organisation's leadership
	  team on March 1.
	  </p>
	  
	  <p><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/about/oberg/">Jonas
	      Öberg</a> is one of FSFE's founding members, and was the
	      organisation's vice president from 2001 through 2008. He has
              considerable experience in managing Free Software-related
              projects and organisations. Before joining as the organisation's
              Executive Director, he has been a Shuttleworth Foundation Fellow
              working on the Elog.io project to create a global provenance
              repository for creative works, worked as Creative Commons'
              regional coordinator in Europe, lectured in Software Engineering
              and built up the conference FSCONS in its original form.
          </p>
          <p>
              Jonas first started volunteering for Free Software in 1998,
              while studying mathematics at a university level. Finding the
              classes in computer science much more interesting than
              mathematics, he soon found Free Software and began volunteering
              for the Free Software Foundation as chief webmaster for the
              GNU Project. Through the years, he's also participated in
              Debian, the GNOME project, and authored the occasional software
              himself.
	  </p>


	  <blockquote><p>"We're absolutely delighted to have Jonas on
	  board," says Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's president. "FSFE's
	  volunteers and staff are enourmously dedicated and
	  motivated. Jonas will channel this energy into an even
	  greater capacity for action. Thanks to him, we will be able
	  to achieve so much more for Free Software."</p></blockquote>

	  <blockquote><p>"We face a need to secure the legal, social
          and technical foundations of Free Software, as well as continuing
          the work of raising awareness of Free Software," says Jonas Öberg.
          "Those are challenges that I very much look forward to tackling
          together with our staff, fellows and volunteers across Europe and
          elsewhere, as well as in collaboration with other organisations."
          </p></blockquote>

	</body>

      <tags>
	<tag>front-page</tag>
	<tag>announce</tag>
      </tags>
      
</html>
