<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-09-16">

	<head>
    <title>FSFE Swiss starts campaign "Freedomvote"</title>
	</head>

    <body>
      <h1>FSFE Swiss starts campaign "Freedomvote"</h1>
		
      <p newsteaser="yes">
      On  the occasion of the Swiss national parliament elections  (Nationalrat- /  Ständeratswahlen) on October 18, FSFE Swiss starts today the campaign<a href="https://freedomvote.ch"> „Freedomvote“</a> in cooperation  with "Swiss Open Systems User Group“ (/ch/open). The  campaign aims at giving more transparency about the candidates that  run for election. All candidates are invited to answer diverse questions  affecting digital user rights, about e-voting, net neutrality, open data, open  data formats and educational material, Free Software and encryption.
      </p>

      <p>
      Freedomvote offers a decision guidance for voters and their vote in between freedom and security. Candidates are welcome to use Freedomvote to answer the given questions in rough gradiations, but also to explicitly explain their own position to each question and answer in a free text field. For voters, to get the best results, it is possible as well, to set up an own profile and match distinct answers  with those of the candidates. 
      </p>

      <p>
        Besides the development and provision of Freedomvote by FSFE Swiss and <a href="http://ch-open.ch/">/ch/open</a>, the campaign is supported by various civil rights organisations, <a href="http://www.digitale-nachhaltigkeit.ch/">Parldigi</a>, <a href="http://www.isoc.ch/">Internet Society Switzerland Chapter</a>, <a href="http://opendata.ch/">Opendata.ch</a>, <a href="http://allmend.ch/">Digitalle Allmend</a> and <a href="http://www.wilhelmtux.ch/">Willhelm Tux</a>.
      </p>

          <blockquote>„To answer the ten questions, candidates  can use our platform directly themself, via their fraction or via us" says Simon Wächter, project  coordinator of Freedomvote, "with what we hope for an active encouragement  of candidates from all parties to our transparency initiative. The more participate, the more can the campaign help to bring trust between voters and elected"</blockquote>


	  <blockquote>Erik  Albers, campaigns manager of the FSFE, states that  „although the  FSFE looks back on a lot of experience with similar campaigns in  different countries, the Freedomvote campaign comes with a new level  of quality and detail to offer transparency in the currently most  urgent questions of our information society. I am happy for the Swiss  voters that they are offered such a detailed, helpful and informative portal."</blockquote>

      <p>
        The underlying software of freedomvote.ch is self-developed and <a href="https://freie.software/adfinis-sygroup/freedomvote">published as Free Software</a>.  
      </p>

    </body>
    
    
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
	<tag content="Freedomvote">Freedomvote</tag>
        <tag content="Swiss">CH</tag>
        <tag content="Ask Your Candidates">AYC</tag>
        <tag content="campaign">campaign</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
