<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2016-06-05">

	<head>
    <title>FSFE comments on Julia Reda's report</title>
	</head>

    <body>
      <h1>FSFE comments on Julia Reda's report</h1>
		
		<p>On last January 20th, the European Parliament's Legal Affairs committee published a draft report with recommendations about how the EU's copyright law should be reformed.</p> 

		<p>It was written by MEP Julia Reda (Pirate Party) and consists of a number of very sensible proposals to adapt copyright law to today's challenges. However, the report has also drawn a considerable amount of opposition from stakeholders who benefit from the current, overly strict rules.</p>

		<p>The Legal Affairs committee will vote on Reda's report on next June 16th to give it its final shape before the vote in plenary session in July. FSFE has provided <a href="/activities/policy/eu/20150605-Comments-On-Reda-Report.html">input to MEPs</a> on a number of points that we consider crucial to copyright reform:
		<ul>
			<li>The public domain should be actively safeguarded and extended. Authors should also be able to publish their works directly in it.</li>
			<li>Works (software included) created with public funds should be made available to the public for use and modification.</li>
			<li>Exceptions and limitations to copyrights have to be made uniform inside the EU. They should also be more flexible to give courts the possibility to adapt them to the fast evolving technological environment. In particular:</li>
			<ul>
				<li>Providing a link must be seen as it is -- a way to identify a location -- and not as a "communication to the public" which might lead to copyright infringement.</li>
				<li>On text and data mining, the right to access to a protected work should include the right to extract data from it. It is elementary for the good functionning of many web services.</li>
				<li>Digital Restriction Management (DRM) should not hinder the actual exercise of exceptions and limitations. Source code of such technologies must be published to enable interoperability and respect of user's privacy.</li>
			</ul>
		</ul></p>

		<p>Help us to make the final report the best possible by <a href="http://copywrongs.eu/">calling</a> your MEP, as well as <a href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/juri/members.html">the members of the Legal Affairs committee</a>. It is the best way to tell them about these important issues. Please do not hesitate to read our <a href="/activities/policy/eu/20150605-Comments-On-Reda-Report.html">complete comment</a> to find further arguments.</p>

		<p>You can find further information at <a href="http://copywrongs.eu/">copywrongs.eu</a> or by directly reading the <a href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?type=COMPARL&amp;mode=XML&amp;language=EN&amp;reference=PE546.580">report</a>. For summaries, visit the <a href="https://juliareda.eu/copyright-evaluation-report-explained/">Reda's website</a>.</p>

    </body>
    
    
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="DRM">DRM</tag>
		<tag>Policy</tag>
		<tag content="European Parliament">EuropeanParliament</tag>
		<tag content="Public Administration">PublicAdministration</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
