<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2015-06-16">

	<head>
    <title>FSFE welcomes adoption of copyright report in EP's JURI committee =
</title>
	</head>

    <body>
      <h1>FSFE welcomes adoption of copyright report in EP's JURI committee =
</h1>
		
		<p newsteaser="yes">In an important step towards modernising the EU's copyright laws, the
Legal Affairs committee of the European Parliament on Tuesday adopted
a report on the Copyright Directive by MEP Julia Reda. </p>

<p>
By adopting the report with 23 votes in favour and 2 against, the
committee asks the European Commission to consider a number of
important updates to copyright as it works towards a revision of the
EU Copyright Directive.
</p>

<p><blockquote>
  "In a world built on information, copyright law is important in
  shaping the ways in which we live and work," says Karsten Gerloff,
  FSFE's president. "We hope that MEPs will further strengthen the
  rights of users as the report moves towards a plenary vote."</blockquote></p>
<p>
FSFE,
   which <a href="http://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20150605-Comments-On-Reda-Report.en.html">provided
   input</a> to the MEPs on the Legal Affairs committe ahead of the
   vote, views the adopted report as largely positive. The committee
   generally supported the idea that copyright exceptions and
   limitations should apply equally both on- and offline. The MEPs
   also voted in favour of allowing authors to dedicate their works
   directly to the public domain.
</p>
<p>
The JURI commmitte adopted language stating that technological
measures such as Digital Restrictions Management (DRM) should not stop
users from enjoying copyright exceptions and limitations. However, the
adopted report leaves out concrete measures to ensure that people can
actually enjoy the full use of works that they have acquired.
</p>

<p>
On the negative side, the text adopted today is lacking in some
important respects. It does not contain an explicit statement that
hyperlinks do not require a copyright license, so that this essential
building block of the web remains in danger. 
</p>
<p>
Reda's proposal for an "open norm" akin to the "fair use" concept in
the US was significantly weakened. The adopted wording on text and
data mining is regrettably ambiguous. FSFE also regrets the deletion
of language that made a clear distinction between physical and
"intellectual property".
</p>
<p>
MEPs can still submit amendments to the report. The European
Parliament is scheduled to hold a plenary vote on July 9.
</p>
    </body>
    
    
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="DRM">DRM</tag>
		<tag>Policy</tag>
		<tag content="European Parliament">EuropeanParliament</tag>
		<tag content="Public Administration">PublicAdministration</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
