<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2015-09-02">

<head>
<title>The long road from compulsory routers to freedom of choice</title>
</head>
  <body>
    
    <h1>The long road from compulsory routers to freedom of choice</h1>
  
    <p newsteaser="yes">The router. Despite often being dusty it is one 
    of the most important devices needed for using the internet or phones. 
    However: Most users in Germany don’t own this device even though it 
    is located inside their homes and they pay for it.</p>
    
    <p>At least still. Because recently the <a 
    href="http://www.bundesrat.de/SharedDocs/drucksachen/2015/0301-0400/365-15.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&amp;v=1">Cabinet of Germany, the chief executive body of the Federal Republic of Germany</a>, passed a draft to abolish compulsory routers. 
    So all users may use a different device from the one the provider delivered 
    and they may modify it freely.</p>

    <h2>What are compulsory routers?</h2>

    <p>For a long time it didn’t look as good for those who wanted 
    to connect their own router to the socket in the wall. Often the 
    providers don’t publish the account credentials to the customer. 
    They may deny any support or block the access completely. 
    This may sound like the sort of problem you want to have but it has 
    <a href="/activities/routers/">enormous consequences for privacy, 
    security and competition</a>. In most cases a router handles all 
    telephone and internet connections. Many devices are full of 
    security holes. With certain protocols the provider can control the 
    router remotely. They may then alter the quality of the internetconnection 
    for certain services. Alternative devices that for example use Free 
    Software have privacy and security in mind. But the chances of such 
    devices on such a closed market are slim at best because many users 
    need to make a great effort as long as the providers don’t go along. 
    This is a unjustified discrimination against users of Free Software as well as 
    the producers of such Free devices. We should always maintain full 
    control over the devices we use.</p>

    <p>
    The key point in the debate about router compulsion is the definition 
    of the network termination point. This defines, where the public network, 
    that of the provider, ends, and where that of the customer begins. This 
    division should actually be the box in the wall, but many providers also 
    include the provided end device. From this perspective, it is legitimate 
    to deny the customer the access data for replacement of this device. 
    With most cable providers, the modem first has to be registered by a 
    technician in a data center. The technical reasons that supposedly 
    support this requirement are in fact just a pretense and not technically 
    valid. In the USA, the market is somewhat liberalised, and the portended 
    mass network failures are not to be seen.</p>

    <h2>What happened previously</h2>

    <p><a href="/activities/routers/timeline.html">Since the beginning of 
2013,</a> the public debate over compulsory routers has grown, 
accompanied by the FSFE. The German Federal Network Agency  <a 
href="https://netzpolitik.org/2014/routerzwang-das-intransparente-verfahren-zur-transparenzverordnung">remained 
vague (German)</a> as to whether router compulsion should be <a 
href="/news/2014/news-20140929-01.html">legally legitimized,</a> even 
after numerous hearings and workshops where not only the FSFE 
but also the majority of hundreds of statements spoke out against it. 
Eventually, the Federal Ministry of Economy (BMWi) took over at the 
end of 2014. The ministry proposed a satisfactory bill and overcame 
all necessary hurdles in the legislative process, from ratification by 
the EU Commission and the Federal Cabinet. The law is now waiting 
for approval of the Federal Parliament and Federal Council.</p>


<p>
We would have wished for further legal codification of user rights for 
communications devices, but the current situation guarantees a basic 
level of user freedom, at least for the intermediate term. In order to 
even reach this state, a considerable amount of work was necessary. 
As the FSFE, we built up a small team of internal and external experts, 
which has created detailed position statements for many of the 
hearings of the Federal Network Agency, which dealt with user 
freedom in the spirit of Free Software and open standards as well 
as economic aspects. Even after the transfer to the Ministry of Economy, 
we critically supervised the process in agreement with other organisations 
and drew attention to deficiencies and positive developments.</p>

    <p>
With a modification of the  <a 
    href="http://www.gesetze-im-internet.de/fteg">FTEG (German)</a> (Law 
on Radio Units and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment) and <a 
href="http://www.gesetze-im-internet.de/tkg_2004">TKG (German)</a> 
(Telecommunications Law), the previous deficiencies should be remedied. 
The passive network termination point should be clearly defined, the 
operator should be obliged to provide, unprompted, the "necessary 
access data and information for the connection of telecommunications 
terminal equipment and the use of the telecommunication services," 
and a fine of 10,000 Euro should be set in case they violate these 
information requirements.</p>

    <h2>It's not over yet</h2>

    <p>
At the moment, the law is at the Federal Council for opinions and 
will afterwards come before the Federal Parliament for three 
readings. If the law is adopted, the approval of the Federal 
Council is still necessary to abolish the router compulsion six 
months after the announcement. In order for this to actually 
succeed, we must oversee this process and be sure that the 
proposal is not watered down. You can help us with this: 
contact your representative so that they pass this law without 
any further limitations, in order to ensure this absolute minimum 
of end-device freedom, user protection, and security.</p>

    <p>
After that, it will also be exciting. Will internet providers be 
obstructive in supporting the use of user devices? Can all devices 
be seamlessly used with alternate routers? Will discrimination of 
some sort still take place in spite of this law? We can be happy 
about the previous successes, but this topic is too controversial 
for the friends of alternative end devices to be lulled into a false 
sense of security. For the future Internet of Things, where 
refrigerators and thermostats will be accesible via the internet, 
routers and end-device freedom in general play a more central 
role. We believe that we have not seen the last of this topic, and 
that we must establish and protect device freedom in other European 
countries.</p>

  </body>
  
  <tags>
    <tag content="Routerzwang">Routers</tag>
    <tag content="Deutschland">de</tag>
    <tag content="Politik">Policy</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
