<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2015-03-24">

  <head>
    <title>Worldwide more than 50 events about Open Standards</title>
  </head>

  <body>
	 
	  
    
	<h1>Worldwide more than 50 events about Open Standards</h1>
            
	<p newsteaser="yes">On March 25 is this years Document Freedom Day and, depending on your time zone, it has already started. Document Freedom Day is the global campaign for document liberation by local groups throughout the world. So far more than 50 groups registered their events in over 25 countries ranging from Asia, Europa, Africa, to South and North America.</p>
	
    
	<p>Open Standards are crucial to ensure that different computer systems can work together, and that users can access documents regardless of the computing platform or device they use. They are the foundation of the Internet and the World Wide Web as well as all kinds of technical communication.</p>
	
	
	<p>Every year, on the last Wednesday of March and the days around, people highlight these important aspects of our digital sovereignity by celebrating Document Freedom Day. In 2015, Document Freedom Day is happening around the world beginning on Tuesday 24, 12 UTC until Thursday, 12UTC. Following the path of the sun, the first events are happening in Japan, Taiwan and India, followed by more than 20 events in Europe, 1 in Africa, and more than 20 in North- and South American. Taken together, all these events make DFD the biggest campaign to promote Open Standards on a local level.</p>
	
	<p>And Document Freedom Day is growing even beyond: In the past years, Document Freedom Day achieved to establish a view on technological boundaries and freedoms under social aspects. More and more, Document Freedom Day is becoming a day to raise political attention also on a national level or global. In 2015, different organisations will use Document Freedom Day to publish and spread political statements. If you are not close to any event or you miss the time to pass by, watch out #DFD2015 in the news, blogs and media, participate and help to get the world interconnected in freedom.</p>
	
	<p>You can still participate: use this day to invite your friends or work mates for a drink or a coffee break and tell them about the international day of Open Standards and why Open Standards are important to you - and for everyone.</p>
	
		
	</body>

	<tags>
		<tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="Document Freedom Day">DFD</tag>
		<tag content="2015">2015</tag>
	</tags>
	


</html>




