<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2015-08-29">

	<head>
    <title>FSFE supports recognition for User Data Rights</title>
	</head>

    <body>
      <h1>FSFE supports recognition for User Data Rights</h1>
		
      <p newsteaser="yes">FSFE supports the publication of the <a href="https://userdatamanifesto.org/">User
        Data Manifesto 2.0</a>, which aims at defining basic rights for
        people to control their own data in the internet age. The
        manifesto is published today and also supported by GNOME, KDE,
        Netzpolitik.org, ownCloud, Spreed, “Terms of Service - Didn’t
        Read” and X-Lab.
      </p>

      <p>
        Today, users are increasingly using online services to perform
        their daily computing, whether it is for social networking,
        for collaboration, or for sharing pictures, among many other
        activities. Thus, users are losing control over their own data
        more than ever.
      </p>

      <p>
        According to the User Data Manifesto, people should have:
      </p>

      <ol>
        <li><strong>Control</strong> over user data access,</li>
        <li><strong>Knowledge</strong> of how user data is stored,
          and which laws or jurisdictions apply.</li>
        <li><strong>Freedom</strong> to choose a platform, without
        experiencing vendor lock-in.  FSFE believes that Free Software
        is necessary to guarantee this.</li>
      </ol>

      <blockquote>
        “The recognition of the User Data Rights defined in the
        manifesto is an important block to build a free society in the
        digital age“ says Hugo Roy, deputy coordinator of FSFE’s Legal
        Team and coauthor of the User Data Manifesto.
      </blockquote>

      <blockquote>
        “The freedoms to use, share, study and improve software that
        we use in our lives is a necessity not only for programs on
        our local machines, but also for the programs that run online
        services processing our data” according to Björn Schießle,
        deputy coordinator of FSFE’s German Team.
      </blockquote>

      <p>
        The manifesto is a good starting point for an important debate
        about users’ rights online. FSFE looks forward to other
        organisations joining the effort to promote online services
        that respects users’ rights and freedoms.
      </p>

    </body>
    
    
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="“Cloud Computing”">CloudComputing</tag>
        <tag content="Privacy">Privacy</tag>
        <tag content="Terms of Service">TermsOfService</tag>
        <tag content="Digital Freedoms">DigitalFreedoms</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
