<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2015-03-06">
	<head>
		<title>Swiss Federal Council considers legal assurance for release of Free Software</title>
	</head>
	<body class="press release">
        <h1>Swiss Federal Council considers legal assurance for release of Free Software</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Currently, there is uncertainty in Switzerland regarding 
the development and release of Free Software by public contractors. The 
trigger for this was the development and release of the software <em>OpenJustitia</em>
 by the Swiss Federal Supreme Court. The federal council now wants to examine
 whether the publication of Free Software by the federal administration can be
 explicitly allowed. The Free Software Foundation Europe demands a clarification
 so that publicly-financed software can unambiguously be legally released as
 Free Software</p>

<p>In December of 2014, the parliamentarian group <em>Parldigi - Digital 
Sustainability</em> <a href="http://www.parlament.ch/d/suche/seiten/geschaefte.aspx?gesch_id=20144275">
submitted a proposal (German)</a> with the title "How can the release of 
open source software [/Free Software] by the federal administration be explicitly
 allowed?" In it, the federal council is instructed to examine whether the 
budgetary planning law must be duly amended so that it explicitly allows the
 release of source code by the federal government and, if necessary, suggest
 suitable adaptations to facilitate the Free Software strategy of the federal 
administration.</p>

<p>On February 25, 2015, the Swiss Federal Council acknowledged that the proposal
 will be examined.</p>

<blockquote><p>"It is important that the Swiss Federal Council takes up this
 topic," said Marcus Möller from the Swiss team of the FSFE. "We hope that 
legal certainty for the development of Free Software by public contractors
 will be established as soon as possible."</p> </blockquote>

<p>The FSFE Switzerland <a
href="http://www.digitale-nachhaltigkeit.ch/2014/11/fsfe-zuerich-zu-openjustitia/">
calls for (German)</a> the lacking legal framework to be created as soon as possible
 so that software -- developed with public money -- can be released as Free Software.
 Even then, public institutions themselves should not become contractors for Free
 Software development, which would lead to a market distortion. On the contrary,
 from the perspective of the FSFE, the actual release of software development under
 Free licenses strengthens and stimulates the market.</p>
  </body>

        <sidebar promo="about-fsfe">

        </sidebar>
	<tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag content="Switzerland">ch</tag>
		<tag content="Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland">Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland</tag>
                <tag content="OpenJustitia">OpenJustitia</tag>
	</tags>
</html>
