<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Open Standards - Definition</title>
<meta content="Definition of Open Standards, with comment on emerging standards and links to other definitions." name="description" />
<meta content="Open standards certified open European interoperability framework SELF EU Project Geneva Declaration on Standards Future of the Internet Document Freedom Day Definition Emerging Standards FSFE pdf" name="keywords" />
  </head>

  <body>
 <p id="category"><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/work.html">Our Work</a> / <a href="/activities/os/os.html">Overview of Open Standards</a></p>
    <h1>Open Standards</h1>

<div id="introduction">

    <p>There is no universally accepted definition of what constitutes
    an Open Standard and no shortage of proposals. Links to some of
    them have been included below. </p>
</div>
    <p>FSFE did not want to propose yet another definition. We decided
    to go with the definition of an Open Standard that was developed
    as part of the preparations
    for <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20130914144123/http://www.certifiedopen.com/">Certified
    Open</a>. Work on this definition began before FSFE's involvement
    on the project and was initially based on the definition in
    the <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/3473/5585.html#finalEIF">European
    Interoperability Framework (EIF)</a> of the European
    Commission.</p>

    <p>In a dialog involving various key players in industry, politics
    and community, the definition was reworked into a definition of
    five points that found consensus among all the involved. The
    definition has subsequently been adopted by
    the <a href="http://selfproject.eu/OSD">SELF EU Project</a>, the
    2008 Geneva
    <a href="http://www.openforumeurope.org/library/geneva/declaration/manifesto-with-logos-final.pdf">Declaration
    on Standards and the Future of the Internet</a> or
    the <a href="http://documentfreedom.org/openstandards.en.html">Document
    Freedom Day</a>.</p>

    <h2>Definition</h2>

    <p>An Open Standard refers to a format or protocol that is</p>
    <ol>
      <li>subject to full public assessment and use without
      constraints in a manner equally available to all parties;</li>
      <li>without any components or extensions that have dependencies
      on formats or protocols that do not meet the definition of an
      Open Standard themselves;</li>
      <li>free from legal or technical clauses that limit its
      utilisation by any party or in any business model;</li>
      <li>managed and further developed independently of any single
      vendor in a process open to the equal participation of
      competitors and third parties;</li>
      <li>available in multiple complete implementations by competing
      vendors, or as a complete implementation equally available to
      all parties.</li>
    </ol>

    <h3>Comment on Emerging Standards</h3>

    <p>When a new format or protocol is under development, clause 5
    cannot possibly be met. FSFE believes this is the correct
    behaviour in cases where technological maturity is required. In
    several scenarios, e.g. governmental deployment, the cost of
    failure can be very high.</p>

    <p>In scenarios that seek to promote the growth of Open Standards,
    strict application of the clause could prevent new Open
    Standards. From the view of the definition, such standards would
    compete directly against vendor-driven proprietary formats. In
    such cases, it can make sense to allow failure of clause 5 for
    "Emerging Standards."</p>

    <p>Which treatment such "Emerging Standards" receive is largely
    dependent on the situation. Where cost of failure is high, only
    fully Open Standards should be used. Where promotion of Open
    Standards is wanted, Emerging Standards should receive special promotion.</p>

    <p>Generally speaking: Open Standards are better than Emerging
    Standards and Emerging Standards are better than vendor-specific
    formats. The closer a format comes to meeting all points of the
    definition, the higher it should be ranked in scenarios where
    interoperability and reliable long-term data storage is
    essential.</p>

    <h3>Links to other definitions</h3>

    <p>Wikipedia has an overview of the term <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_standard">Open Standard</a> and various definitions. The following is a sample of some definitions:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/3473/5585.html#finalEIF">European Interoperability Framework</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://www.ft.dk/Samling/20051/beslutningsforslag/B103/index.htm">Motion B 103 of the Danish Parliament</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://perens.com/OpenStandards/Definition.html">Open Standards - Principles and Practice</a> by Bruce Perens</li>
      <li><a href="http://www.digistan.org/open-standard:definition">Open Standards Definition</a> by Digistan</li>
    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
