<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - EIFv2: Tracking the loss of interoperability</title>
  </head>

  <body class="full-width" id="eifv2-track">
  
    <p id="category"><a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a></p>
    <h1>EIFv2: Tracking the loss of interoperability</h1>
    
    <div id="introduction">
      <p>This document provides a comparative analysis of the evolution of the
      European Interoperability Framework. Based on <a
      href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/7732">consultations</a>
      submitted on <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/7733">the
      second version of the European Interoperability Framework</a> (EIF version
      2), it emphasizes the different transformations the draft has undergone
      since 2008.</p>
    </div>
    
    <p>From our analysis, we can conclude that in key places, the European
    Commission has taken on board only the comments <a
    href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=31903">made</a> by the <a
    href="http://www.bsa.org">Business Software Alliance</a>, a lobby group
    working on behalf of proprietary software vendors. At the same time,
    comments by groups working in favour of Free Software and Open Standards
    were neglected, e.g. those made by <a
    href="http://openforumeurope.org/">Open Forum Europe</a>. </p>
    
    <p>Looking back to the consultation draft, it is obvious that during the
    development of EIFv2, the European Commission has abandoned the concept of
    Open Standards as a key enabler for interoperability. This is a central
    reason why the current draft would see the European Interoperability
    Framework become a shadow of its former self.</p>

    <p>Table of Contents</p>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="#about">What is the European Interoperability Framework?</a></li>
      <li><a href="#one">1. Standards are key to interoperability</a></li>
      <li><a href="#two">2. Eliminating the use of proprietary standards</a></li>
      <li><a href="#three">3. The Openness Continuum</a></li>
    </ul>
    
    <h2 id="about">What is the European Interoperability Framework?</h2>
    
    <p>The EIF is a set of interoperability guidelines documents and initiatives
    conducted under the auspices of the ISA (Interoperability Solutions for
    European Public Administrations) programme. The EIF supplements the various
    National Interoperability Frameworks in the pan-European dimension.</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li>November 2004: <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/3473/5585#finalEIF">European Interoperability Framework (EIF) version 1</a></li>
      <li>July 2008: EIF version 2, <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=31597">draft for consultation</a> (<a href="http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/en/document/7732">comments</a>)</li>
      <li>November 2009: EIF version 2, <a href="http://blog.webwereld.nl/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/European-Interoperability-Framework-for-European-Public-Services-draft.pdf">leaked draft</a></li>
      <li>March 2010: EIF version 2, <a href="#">leaked draft (release candidate)</a>
        <p>If there are any improvements to be found over the November 2009
        draft, they are cosmetic at best. Between then and now, the European
        Commission has merely removed the formulations that attracted the most
        criticism.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>


    <h2 id="one">1. “Standards are key to interoperability”</h2>
    
    <div class="compare">
    
      <div class="clear">
      
	<div class="grid-50 left">
      
	  <h3>A. EIFv2 Consultation Draft</h3>

	  <blockquote>
		  <p>"<span style="background:#ffff00">Standards are key to
		  interoperability.</span> In the EU strategy for Growth and Jobs,
		  strong and dynamic standardisation has been identified as one of
		  the key instruments to foster innovation. Standardisation has a
		  dimension of public interest, in particular whenever issues of
		  safety, health, environment and performance are at stake." (p.35)</p>

		  <p>"The role of national administrations in this process is to
		  <span style="background:#1e90ff">choose the appropriate
		  standard</span>"</p>
	  </blockquote>

	  <p>The Consultation Draft highlights the fact that standards are among the best tools to achieve interoperability without harming competition or innovation. Besides, it refers to "appropriate standard," which means that if several standards exist for the same purpose, then a choice should be made. This choice, as later explained, should give a preference to Open Standards.</p>

	  </div>
	  
	  <div class="grid-50 left">
      
	    <h3>B. The Business Software Alliance's comments</h3>

	    <blockquote>
		    <p>"<span style="background:#ffff00">while open standards are
		    critical to achieving interoperability</span>, <span style="background:#ffa500">often a number of complementary mechanisms
		    work together to achieve the overall interoperability
		    goal.</span>"</p>
	    </blockquote>

	    <p>In this sentence, BSA refers explicitly to Open Standards while the assessment that is made suggests that standards themselves are not a key to interoperability.</p>

	    <blockquote>
		    <p>"Finally, the EIFv2.0 should refrain from recommending that
		    procurement be used to promote open standards. Instead, the EIF
		    v2.0 should endorse applicable principles and rules as expressed in
		    Directives 2004/18 and 98/34, and should encourage Member States to
		    make procurement decisions on the merits."</p>

	    </blockquote>

	    <p>While the Consultation Draft argued that national administrations' role is
	    to choose appropriate and Open Standards, the BSA clearly advocates against such decisions,
	    which should be based exclusively "on the merits."</p>

	    <blockquote>
		    <p>"Fourth, the <span style="background:#1e90ff">draft EIFv2.0
		    mistakenly suggests</span> that convergence toward a single set of
		    standards is better for public authorities than the use of
		    multiple, competing standards. 
		    <span style="background:#1e90ff">Indeed, the draft concludes that the use of
		    multiple, equivalent standards may lead to a lack of
		    interoperability. Converging toward a single set of standards is,
		    in most cases, a highly risky approach</span>. Because it is
		    impossible to predict how any specific solution will fare in the
		    marketplace "</p>
	    </blockquote>

	  </div>
	  
	</div>
	
	<div class="clear">
	  
	  <div class="grid-50 left">

	    <h3>C. EIFv2 Leaked Draft 11/2009</h3>

	    <blockquote>
		    <p>"<span style="background:#ffff00">While there is a correlation
		    between openness and interoperability</span>, <span style="background:#ffa500">it is also true that interoperability can be
		    obtained without openness, for example via
		    <strong>homogeneity</strong> of the ICT systems, which implies that
		    all partners use, or agree to use, the same solution to implement a
		    European Public Service.</span>"</p>

	    </blockquote>

	    <p>Referring to BSA's "complementary mechanisms," the leaked draft argues that interoperability can also be achieved without standards, e.g. if everyone uses the same proprietary solution.</p>

	  </div>
	  
	  <div class="grid-50 left">

	    <h3>D. EIFv2 Leaked Draft 03/2010</h3>

	    <blockquote>
	    
	      <p>Therefore, European public administrations should strive towards 
	      openness taking into account needs, priorities, legacy, budget, market
	      situation and a number of other factors.</p>
	    
	    </blockquote>

	    <p>The unfortunate reference to homogeneity has been dropped out, in favour of openness.</p>
	    
	    <p>This part has become even less meaningful than
	    the draft from November 2009. Given the vendor lock-in which proprietary
	    software and standards produce, the language in this section does not
	    provide any reasons for public administrations to consider moving to
	    Open Standards, let alone actually make the switch.</p>

	  </div>
	  
	</div><!--end .clear-->
		
	<hr />

	<p>The current draft says that in making their decision about whether to use
	Open Standards, public bodies should consider "priorities, legacy, budget,
	market situation" and other factors. This non-conclusive lists is easy to
	decrypt:</p> 
	
	<ul>
	  <li><p>Like any strategic consideration, looking into Open Standards does
	  often take an initial extra effort. IT is not usually a mission priority
	  in public administrations. Therefore, explicitely naming "priorities" here
	  preserves the status quo.</p></li>
	  
	  <li><p>"Legacy" implies that public administrations should look at the
	  format of the existing data they have, and consider the cost of switching
	  to a storage format based on Open Standards. Exit costs from proprietary
	  solutions can be substantial. But these costs always accrue eventually,
	  either now (when they can be calculated) or at a later time, when the
	  public body needs to switch to a new format (whether open or proprietary)
	  for some reason. In the latter case, the future costs are both higher and
	  harder to calculate.</p>
	  <p>The reference to "legacy" therefore asks public bodies to put off the
	  inevitable exit costs to some distant future day. Organisations following
	  this advice are in effect skirting their responsibility towards
	  citizens.</p></li>
	  
	  <li><p>"market situation" is an invitation to public bodies to prefer the
	  dominant solution. On the desktop as well as in many other areas, the most
	  widespread solutions are usually proprietary, thanks to the long-standing
	  effects of vendor lock-in and the way in which some proprietary companies
	  have abused their dominant position.</p></li>
	</ul>
	
	<p>
	  With this reference to "market situation", the EC is asking Europe's
	  public bodies to further entrench current monopolies by choosing solutions
	  based simply on their market share, rather than on a full assessment of
	  their capabilities, long-term benefits and sustainability.
	</p>

	<h2 id="two">2. “Eliminating the use of proprietary standards”</h2>
	
	<div class="clear">
	
	  <div class="grid-50 left">

	    <h3>A. EIFv2 Consultation Draft</h3>

	    <blockquote>
	    
	      <p>"Public administrations and European Institutions such as the
	      European Commission should actively <span
	      style="background:#90ee90">support efforts at eliminating the use of
	      proprietary standards</span> and solutions within public administrations
	      by actively supporting and participating in standardization efforts,
	      particularly by formulating and communicating needs and requirements,
	      according to the new approach."</p>

	      <p>"make access to public services as affordable as possible."</p>

	      <p>"Administrations should ensure that <span
	      style="background:#ffc0cb">solutions and/or products
	      are chosen via a process in which competition between vendors is
	      fair. [...] do not lock them in</span> as regards future choices."</p>

	      <p>"This section advocates a <span
	      style="background:#90ee90">systematic migration towards the use
	      of open standards</span> or technical specifications [...] to guarantee
	      interoperability, to facilitate future reuse and long-term
	      sustainability while minimizing constraints. After contextualising
	      the definition of open standards or technical specifications, this
	      section addresses the assessment and selection of standards or
	      technical specifications and finally presents a set of
	      recommendations. (p 51)"</p>

	      <p>"<span
	      style="background:#ffc0cb">Access to the standards or technical specifications has to be
	      inexpensive and easy and there should be no (cost) barriers related
	      to their implementation</span> so that a wide variety of products will be
	      available on the market;"</p>

	    </blockquote>

	    <p>These extracts shows the original intention of the Framework. Besides promoting standards,
	    choosing Open Standards instead of proprietary ones was regarded as the best way to ensure 
	    interoperability's success along with economic competition. <a href="#not1" id="anc1">[1]</a></p>

	    <blockquote>
	    
	      <p>"considered an open standard under the EIF v1 definition:</p>
	      
	      <ol>
		      <li>The open standard is adopted and will be maintained by a
		      not-for-profit organisation, and its ongoing development occurs on
		      the basis of an <span
	      style="background:#ffc0cb">open decision-making procedure available to all
		      interested parties (consensus or majority decision etc.)</span>.</li>

		      <li>The open standard has been published and the standard
		      specification document is available either <span
	      style="background:#ffc0cb">freely or at a nominal
		      charge. It must be permissible to all to copy, distribute and use
		      it for no fee or at a nominal fee</span>.</li>
		      <li>The intellectual property - i.e. <span
	      style="background:#ffc0cb">patents possibly present - of
		      (parts of) the open standard is made irrevocably available on a
		      royalty free basis</span>.</li>
		      <li>There are <span
	      style="background:#ffc0cb">no constraints on the re-use</span> of the standard."</li>
	      </ol>

	    </blockquote>

	    <p>This definition of an open standard was already approved in the first version of the European Interoperability Framework.</p>

	    </div>
	    
	    <div class="grid-50 left">

	      <h3>B. The BSA's comments</h3>

	      <blockquote>
		      <p>"Second, both the EIF v2.0 and CAMSS <span
		      style="background:#ffc0cb">should either not define
		      open standards</span>, or should endorse a definition that is consistent
		      with common usage of the term. (...)
		      "open":</p>

		      <p>(1) the specification is publicly available <span
		      style="background:#ffc0cb">without cost or for
		      a reasonable fee</span> to any interested party;</p>
	      </blockquote>

	      <p>This point is an equivalent of EIFv1 definition's 2nd criterion. However, there are substantial differences. While the EIFv1 advocated "free of charge or at a nominal fee," the BSA argues for "a reasonable fee," which implies that Free Software is prevented from making use of those standards. ("Reasonable" refers to so-called "Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory" terms, which are in fact neither reasonable nor non-discriminatory from the point of view of Free Software. Under such terms, the person implementing the standard usually has to pay the rightsholder a royalty <strong>per copy</strong> of the software which is distributed. This clashes with most common Free Software licenses, which forbid restrictions on distribution. <a href="#not2" id="anc2">[2]</a></p>

	      <blockquote>

		      <p>(2) any patent rights necessary to implement the standard are
		      available to all implementers on <span
		      style="background:#ffc0cb">RAND terms, either with or without
		      payment of a reasonable royalty or fee</span>; and</p>
	      </blockquote>

	      <p>The EIFv1's definition required that patent rights made were irrevocably available for use without royalties. This is clearly against BSA's statement.</p>

	      <blockquote>
		      <p>(3) the specification should be in sufficient detail to enable a
		      complete understanding of its scope and purpose and to enable
		      competing implementations by multiple vendors.</p>
	      </blockquote>

	    </div>
	    
	  </div><!--end .clear-->
	  
	  <div class="clear">
	    
	    <div class="grid-50 left">
	    
	      <h3>C. EIFv2 Leaked Draft 11/2009</h3>

	      <blockquote>
		      <p>"<span style="background:#90ee90">It is up to the creators of any
		      particular specification to decide how open they want their
		      specification to be</span>."</p>

		      <p>"If the principle of openness is applied in full:</p>
		      <ul>

			      <li><span
		      style="background:#ffc0cb">All stakeholders can contribute to the elaboration of the
			      specification and public review is organised</span>;</li>
			      <li>The specification document is freely available for everybody to
			      study and to share with others;</li>
			      <li>The specification can be implemented under the different
			      software development approaches19.</li>
		      </ul>
		      <p>[19] For example using Open Source or proprietary software and
		      technologies. This also allows providers under various business
		      models to deliver products, technologies and services based on such
		      kind of formalised specifications."</p>
	      </blockquote>

	      <p>The definition of Open Standards from the first version of the EIF was present in
	      the consultation document, which also said that "[p]ublic administrations in Europe [...] 
	      should actively support efforts at eliminating proprietary standards". In reaction to the 
	      BSA's comments, the leaked draft totally reverses that position, offering only an extremely
	      vague description of a "principle of openness", which can either be applied in full or not.</p>

	    </div>
	    
	    <div class="grid-50 left">
	    
	      <h3>D. EIFv2 Leaked Draft 03/2010</h3>

	      <blockquote>
	      <p>The possibility of sharing and re-using components based on formalised specifications depends on the openness of the specifications. If the principle of openness is applied in full:</p>

	      <ul><li>All stakeholders have the same possibility of contributing to the elaboration of the specification and public review thereof is organised;</li><li>The specification document is freely available for everybody to copy, distribute and use;</li><li>The specification can be freely implemented and shared under different software development approaches (18).</li>
	      </ul>
	      <p>[18] For instance, Open Source or proprietary software and technologies. This fosters competition since providers working under various business models may compete to deliver products, technologies and services based on such kind of formalised specifications.</p>
	      </blockquote>
	      
	      <p>The current draft does not reflect any improvement over the version of the Document made public on November.</p>

	    </div>
	  
	</div><!--end .clear-->
	
	<hr />
    
    <p>
      The 2008 consultation draft spoke of "eliminating the use of proprietary
      standards". This provided a clear direction to Member States, showing them
      the way to achieve interoperability in their public services
    </p>
    
    <p>
      At this point, the consultation draft provided a workable definition of
      what is considered to be an Open Standard. In the current draft, this
      section is stripped down to a factual statement that is so generic as to
      be meaningless. This section provides no guidance whatsoever to Member
      States.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Meanwhile, Free Software ("open source") as a key driver of
      interoperability is relegated to a footnote, which is the only occurence
      of the term in the entire document. The elimination of Free Software from
      the text could not have been more systematic.
    </p>
    
    
    <h2 id="three">3. The Openness Continuum</h2>
    
    <div class="clear">
    
      <div class="grid-50 left">
      
	<h3>A. Consultation Draft</h3>

	<blockquote>
	
	  <p>"The difficulty in limiting the selection of standards or
	  technical specifications only to <span style="background:#d09cf0">the "most
	  open</span>"<br />

	  The definition of open standards presented above should be
	  considered as part of <span style="background:#d09cf0">a broader approach</span>, as openness touches upon
	  many aspects of the definition, adoption and use of standards or
	  technical specifications. First of all, openness might address
	  additional process-related characteristics such as being subject to
	  a non-discriminatory conformance process.</p>

	  <p>On the other hand, the characteristics of an open standard or
	  technical specification, as presented in the previous section,
	  might be fulfilled by some technical specifications only in part.
	  It is useful to consider some specific
	  "shadings" of openness such as
	  technical specifications that are:</p>
	  
	  <ul>
	    <li>"freely available" (meaning that their contents are not
	    secret),</li>
	    <li>"available for free" (without charge), or</li>

	    <li>"free of use restrictions" (i.e., of legal restrictions on
	    their use).</li>
	  </ul>

	  <p>The interest in such additional categorisations is
	  straightforward: <span style="background:#d09cf0">Open standards or technical specifications are
	  preferred (for all the reasons given above), but if there is no
	  suitable, feasible open standard or technical specification, one
	  can investigate some of the "less
	  open" alternatives</span>. Whereas the goal is to ensure real
	  and fair competition through the selection of open standards or
	  technical specification, it is however <span style="background:#d09cf0">difficult at this time to
	  limit the selection of standards or technical specifications only
	  to the "most open"</span> as prevailing
	  conditions must be taken into account, including the current market
	  conditions.</p>

	  <p>However, <span style="background:#d09cf0">such choices must be revisited on a regular basis in
	  order to ensure that a systematic migration towards the use of open
	  standards</span> or technical specifications takes place, as quickly as is
	  practical."</p>

	</blockquote>

      </div>
      
      <div class="grid-50 left">
        
	<h3>B. BSA</h3>

	<blockquote>
	
	  <p>"In defining openness in a manner that is inconsistent with
	  common industry practice, the EIF v2.0 excludes many <span style="background:#d09cf0">leading
	  standards</span> widely recognised as open from its scope
	    including such well-known standards as DVB,
	  GSM and MP3. (We have attached a list of excluded standards to our
	  comments at Appendix A). If Member States implement this
	  definition, they will effectively be restricted from utilizing a
	  wide range of <span style="background:#d09cf0">leading technologies that implement these popular
	  standards</span>. This would represent a dramatic shift at national level,
	  given that virtually every single Member State now has policies
	  that are far more flexible."</p>

	</blockquote>

	<p>Against Open Standards and specifications, the BSA promotes "leading or popular standards." It seems difficult to have any relevant guideline or definition about what makes a "leading standard." Moreover, there are no connections in terms of interoperability and competition.</p>

        </div>
        
      </div>
      
      <div class="clear">
        
        <div class="grid-50 left">

	  <h3>C. EIFv2 Leaked Draft 11/2009</h3>

	  <blockquote>
	  
	    <p>"Specifications, software and software development methods that
	    promote collaboration and the results of which can freely be
	    accessed, reused and shared are considered open and lie at one end
	    of the spectrum while <span style="background:#d09cf0">non-documented, proprietary specifications,
	    proprietary software and the reluctance or resistance to reuse
	    solutions, i.e. the "not invented here" syndrome, lie at the other
	    end</span>.</p>

	    <p>The spectrum of approaches that lies between these two extremes
	    can be called the openness continuum."</p>
	    
	  </blockquote>

	  <p> The consultation document already included the idea of an "openness continuum".
	  This continuum, however, only covered a range from "open" to "most open". In the leaked draft,
	  the continuum suddenly includes proprietary standards and specifications. 
	  </p>


	  <blockquote>
	  
	    <p>"Within the context of the EIF, openness is the willingness of
	    persons, organisations or other members of a community of interest
	    to share knowledge and to stimulate debate within that community of
	    interest, having as ultimate goal the advancement of knowledge and
	    the use thereof to solve relevant problems. In that sense, openness
	    leads to considerable gains in efficiency."</p>
	    
	  </blockquote>
        
        </div>
        
        <div class="grid-50 left">

	  <h3>D. EIFv2 Leaked Draft 03/2010</h3>
	  <blockquote>
	  
	    <p>Specifications, software and software development methods that promote 
	    collaboration and the results of which can freely be accessed, reused and 
	    shared are considered open and may lead to gains in efficiency, while 
	    non-documented, proprietary specifications, proprietary software and the 
	    reluctance or resistance to reuse solutions, i.e. the "not invented here" 
	    syndrome, are considered closed.</p>
	  
	  </blockquote>

	  <blockquote>
	  
	    <p>Within the context of the EIF, openness is the willingness of persons, 
	    organisations or other members of a community of interest <strong>to freely
	    share knowledge</strong> and to stimulate debate within that community of
	    interest, having as ultimate goal the advancement of knowledge and the use 
	    thereof to solve relevant problems. Interoperability involves the sharing of
	    information and knowledge between interacting organisations, hence implies 
	    openness.</p>
	    
	  </blockquote>
      
	  <p>
	    The terms "open" and "closed" are used in a manner that is so vague as to
	    render them essentially meaningless.
	  </p>	
	  
	  <p>
	    However, the current draft makes no attempt to highlight that an "open"
	    approach is preferable to a "closed" one. Even if it did, both terms are
	    used in a manner that is so vague as to render them essentially
	    meaningless.
	  </p>

        </div>
    
    </div><!--end .clear-->
    
    <hr />
    
    <p>
      By the time the draft of November 2009 became public, this had morphed
      into the concept of an "openness continuum", which met with heavy
      criticism. As a result, the expression is no longer present in the current
      draft, which instead uses simply "open" and "closed".
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Looking back to the consultation draft, it is obvious that during the
      development of EIFv2, the EC has abandoned the concept of Open Standards
      as a key enabler for interoperability. This is a central reason why the
      current draft would see the European Interoperability Framework become a
      shadow of its former self.
    </p>

    <p><strong>Conclusion:</strong> Based on the above analysis, we can only
    conclude that the European Commission is giving strong preference to the
    viewpoint of a single lobby group. Regarding interoperability and open
    standards, key places of the consultation document were modified to comply
    with the demands of the BSA. Input given by other groups was not considered
    on this issue. Beyond ignoring this input, the Commission has apparently
    decided to ignore the success of the first version of the EIF, and to
    abandon its efforts towards actually achieving interoperability in
    eGovernment services.</p>
    
    <hr />
    
    <p><a id="not1" href="#anc1">[1]</a>. This is a stark contrast with the 
    European Commission's policy on this subject. See 
    <a href="http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=SPEECH/08/317&amp;format=HTML&amp;aged=0&amp;language=EN&amp;guiLanguage=en">
    this speech by European Commissioner for Competition, Ms. Neelie Kroes</a>:</p>

    <blockquote>“I know a smart business decision when I see one - choosing 
    open standards is a very smart business decision indeed.”</blockquote>

    <p>
      <a id="not2" href="#anc2">[2]</a>. Indeed, instead of the vague notion of 
      "reasonable fee," a nominal one-time fee permits Free Software projects to
      implement standards. See as a similar case the 
      <a href="http://www.samba.org/samba/PFIF/">agreement between Samba and Microsoft</a>.
    </p>
    
    </div><!--end .compare-->
    
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
<tags>
<tag>open-standards</tag>
</tags>
<author id="roy" />
<author id="gerloff" />
<date>
  <revision content="2010-03-24" />
  <original content="2009-11-27" />
</date>
<!--<download type="pdf" content="eifv2-02.pdf" />-->
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
