<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Open Standards Overview</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a>

    <h1>FSFE's work on Open Standards</h1>

    <p class="background">
      We increasingly entrust our information and communication to
      electronic storage and transmission. Open Standards are
      essential for your records and communication to outlive the
      application you are currently using. Lack of Open Standards
      quickly leads to data lock-in, generally followed by product and
      vendor lock-in. FSFE is promoting Open Standards in order to
      ensure equal freedom of data, competition, and innovation for
      everyone.
    </p>

    <h2>Open Standards and Democracy</h2>

    <p>Electronic records and communication include those of your
      government, such as tax and legal records or minutes of
      parliamentary proceedings. Making sure that such records remain in
      the control of the government is essential for a functioning
      democracy. The same is true for all interactions between citizens
      and their government, which should never depend on monopolies or
      the proprietary product of a single company.</p>

    <h2>Open Standards and Your Wallet</h2>

    <p>Open Standards are essential for a free market and competition
      between various solutions because users can choose freely. Such
      competition results in better functionality and prices for
      everyone, you included.</p>

    <h2>Open Standards and Innovation</h2>

    <p>All innovation stands on the shoulders of giants. Open
      Standards ensure that everyone can climb on those shoulders and
      innovate. Lack of Open Standards can stifle innovation by
      allowing the innovator of the last layer to claim everything
      that came before and control everything that follows.</p>

    <h2>Open Standards in court</h2>

    <p>Our work on Open Standards is closely linked with various areas
      of activity. This includes the Freedom Task Force and in
      particular the antitrust case against Microsoft where FSFE and
      Samba worked to free the workgroup server protocol layer.</p>

    <h2>Open Standards in government</h2>
    <p> Throughout Europe, FSFE is working hard to convince
    governments to make Open Standards the default choice for the
    public sector. Issues such as equal access to government services
    for all citizens, fighting vendor lock-in, promoting competition,
    and the long-term archiving of data are all closely tied to the
    use of Open Standards.</p>
    

    <h2>Open Standards at ISO</h2>
 
    <p>International Standards of the ISO are not Open Standards in
      general. An example of this are the MPEG standards or the
      proprietary versions of PDF. When Microsoft pushed its MS-OOXML
      for ISO approval, FSFE was among the first to highlight the
      issues. Our intensive work on MS-OOXML helped to demonstrate the
      problems in the ISO process.</p>

    <address>
	    Free Software Foundation Europe<br />
	    Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br />
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
      http://fsfe.org/activities/os/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
