<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Context Briefing - DIS-29500: Deprecated before use?</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h3>FSFE Context Briefing</h3>

    <h1>DIS-29500: Deprecated before use?</h1>

    <center>
      [<a href="msooxml-idiosyncrasies.pdf">Also available as PDF (1.4M)</a>]
    </center>

    <p>
      When ECMA submitted MS-OOXML as ECMA-376 to ISO for fast-track approval,
      several countries<sup><a href="#1">1</a></sup> criticised overlap with
      the existing ISO standard ISO/IEC 26300:2006, the Open Document Format
      (ODF).
    </p>

    <p>
      In its
      <a href="http://www.ecma-international.org/news/TC45_current_work/Ecma%20responses.pdf">February 2007 response</a>,
      ECMA admits that MS-OOXML addresses the same high-level goals of
      representing documents, spreadsheets and presentations as ISO/IEC
      26300:2006, but maintains that the standards meet different user
      requirements. This is clarified by ECMA's statement that the explicit
      design goal for ECMA-376 is to preserve idiosyncrasies from Microsoft's
      proprietary legacy file formats. This statement was included in the ECMA
      response on January 2008 to 113 comments<sup><a href="#2">2</a></sup>
      made by national bodies during the 2 September 2007 ballot, as well as
      its 14 January 2008 proposed Disposition of Comments.
    </p>

    <p>
      Considering that alleged preservation of idiosyncrasies is the stated
      reason for the entire DIS-29500 ISO process, FSFE considers it worthwhile
      to investigate this claim in greater depth.
    </p>

    <p>
      The preservation of idiosyncrasies is a questionable reason for an
      international standard. The goal of standardisation is to provide
      consistency and to remove idiosyncrasies, not to perpetuate them. By
      aiming to preserve idiosyncrasies, the best achievable outcome is good
      documentation of incompatibilities. When it became clear that the main
      purpose of DIS-29500 was the documentation of idiosyncrasies, the process
      should have stopped. That it did not indicates a lack of internal
      structures in the fast-track procedures to prevent abuse of the
      international standardisation system.
    </p>

    <p>
      Analysis of DIS-29500 by the national standardisation bodies quickly
      revealed that information to preserve proprietary legacy formats was
      referenced in the specification, but the specification of these formats
      was missing. So although the preservation of idiosyncrasies was the
      declared design goal and the reason for the creation of DIS-29500, this
      information is missing from the 6000+ page specification.
    </p>

    <p>
      Microsoft recently deprecated its legacy file formats and as part of its
      response to criticism in the DIS-29500 process announced to finally make
      documentation of these formats available under the Open Specification
      Promise just before the BRM. Although there will not be enough time for
      analysis of comprehensiveness, quality and fidelity of that documentation
      for purpose of the BRM, it seems likely that Microsoft will declare this
      a satisfactory response to the question of missing specification in
      DIS-29500. It would however be premature for national bodies to accept
      this assertion in blind faith - in particular as publication will take
      place outside the ISO scope and is subject to all legal concerns
      regarding the Open Specification Promise.
    </p>

    <p>
      Simultaneously, ECMA addresses this in Response 34 of its proposed
      Disposition of Comments by removing all references to idiosyncrasies from
      the specification and placing them in a newly formed Annex for deprecated
      information. With the removal of this information from the DIS-29500, the
      design goal of MS-OOXML can no longer be met. The entire specification
      has therefore effectively become obsolete.
    </p>

    <p>
      Analysis has shown before that MS-OOXML is covering the same functional
      space as ISO/IEC 26300:2006 and is unnecessary. It was ECMA which
      insisted on backward-oriented documentation of idiosyncrasies being a
      sufficient motive for ISO to ignore the good practice of forward-oriented
      standardisation. But even by ECMAs own criteria the rationale for
      DIS-29500 has been deprecated.
    </p>

    <p>
      In essence: Response 34 of the proposed Disposition of Comments
      effectively contradicts and invalidates Response 31, which cites
      preservation of idiosyncrasies as the primary design goal and reason for
      DIS-29500. It also invalidates ECMAs February 2007 response to similar
      criticism.
    </p>

    <h4>No implementation of DIS-29500</h4>

    <p>
      Because there is no justification for the standardisation of DIS-29500,
      its approval places an unnecessary cost on competition in the IT sector,
      resulting in artificially higher prices for end users.
    </p>

    <p>
      Furthermore, the ongoing standardisation process increasingly modifies
      what started out as a documentation effort for Microsoft's current
      default file format. The implementation is already being shipped for some
      time, and updating the product with the various improvements made to
      DIS-29500 would result in incompatibility of next year's version of
      Microsoft Office with the files written by today's version. Microsoft
      itself maintained this as an argument against these suggested changes
      during the international review phase.
    </p>

    <p>
      With more than 2,000 pages of proposed Disposition of Comments and
      Microsoft as the only party with commercial interest in DIS-29500, it
      seems likely that we will see significant differences between the
      DIS-29500 specification and the MS-OOXML implementation, which will
      nonetheless claim implementation of DIS-29500.
    </p>

    <p>
      Verification of this claim and ensuring fidelity of written data against
      the DIS-29500 will be an extremely costly exercise for all users of
      MS-OOXML. Because there will only be one alleged full implementation
      available, users will need to carefully compare their binary files
      against the DIS-29500 specification to protect fidelity of their data.
    </p>

    <p>
      Microsoft and ECMA are in fact already using this strategy in their
      current responses to criticism by listing applications that seek
      compatibility with Microsoft Office 2007 as implementations of DIS-29500.
      Even where not sub-contracted by Microsoft, these applications certainly
      use DIS-29500 for guidance on how to implement the current Microsoft file
      format, but their benchmark for success is not faithful implementation of
      DIS-29500, it is binary compatibility with Microsoft Office 2007.
    </p>

    <p>
      It should be noted that a similar situation could never arise with
      ISO/IEC 26300:2006 (ODF) because it already has several independent
      implementations. Files written by one application need to be readable by
      all others, otherwise there is a problem with fidelity in at least one of
      the applications. Because there is a wide range of applications and users
      for ODF, such incompatibilities will be detected easily. A diverse user
      and application base is the best insurance against creeping legacy
      lock-in.
    </p>

    <h4>Remember ECMA-234?</h4>

    <p>
      There is no need in the marketplace for ECMA-376, the specification does
      not deliver the promised preservation of idiosyncrasies, and there is no
      commitment by Microsoft to implement the outcome of the DIS-29500 process
      faithfully for a meaningful period of time. Does anyone remember
      <a href="http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-234.htm">ECMA-234</a>,
      the "Application Programming Interface for Windows (APIW)"?
    </p>

    <p>
      This ECMA standard was also put forward as standardisation of the Windows
      operating system with much the same promises that are being made for
      ECMA-376 today. It was deprecated just after ECMA-234 was finally
      standardised when Microsoft published Windows 95, which completely
      ignored the existence of ECMA-234. Microsoft's product decision made
      ECMA-234 obsolete and turned the entire specification into a huge waste
      of collective effort. Without a binding commitment by Microsoft to
      faithfully implement the outcome of DIS-29500, the current process is
      promising to go down the same route.
    </p>

    <p>
      It seems that ISO, its national standardisation bodies and hundreds of
      standardisation experts around the world are essentially being used for a
      rather costly product marketing exercise. The question is whether ISO
      should allow itself to be used in this way.
    </p>

    <p>
      If it becomes common practice to standardise for promotional effect and
      then ignore, ISO might find itself deprecated in the area of Information
      and Communication Technologies.
    </p>

    <p>
      FSFE would consider this too high a price to pay for approval of
      DIS-29500.
    </p>

    <h2>Related reading</h2>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="/activities/os/msooxml-interoperability.html">Interoperability woes with MS-OOXML</a></li>
      <li><a href="/activities/os/msooxml-questions.html">Six questions to national standardisation bodies</a></li>
      <li><a href="/activities/os/msooxml-converter-hoax.html">The Converter Hoax</a></li>
      <li><a href="/activities/os/msooxml-questions-for-ms.html">Questions for Microsoft on Open Formats</a></li>
    </ul>

    <hr />

    <p class="footnote">
      [<a name="1">1</a>] Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Japan,
      Kenya, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Singapore, and the United Kingdom.
    </p>

    <p class="footnote">
      [<a name="2">2</a>] BR-0002, CL-0057, CL-0058, CL-0059, CL-0060, CL-0061,
      CL-0062, CL-0063, CL-0064, CL-0065, CL-0066, CL-0067, CL-0068, CL-0069,
      CL-0070, CL-0071, CL-0073, CL-0074, CL-0075, CL-0076, CL-0077, CL-0078,
      CL-0079, CL-0080, CL-0081, CL-0082, CL-0083, CL-0084, CL-0085, CL-0086,
      CL-0087, CL-0089, CL-0090, CO-0081, CO-0082, DE-0114, DK-0004, DK-0005,
      GB-0136, GB-0137, GB-0138, GB-0140, GB-0141, GB-0142, GB-0143, GB-0144,
      GB-0145, GB-0146, GB-0147, GB-0148, GB-0149, GB-0150, GB-0151, GB-0152,
      GB-0153, GB-0154, GB-0155, GB-0156, GB-0157, GB-0158, GB-0159, GB-0160,
      GB-0161, GB-0162, GB-0163, GB-0164, GB-0165, GB-0166, GB-0167, GB-0168,
      GB-0169, GB-0170, GR-0094, GR-0095, IR-0008, IR-0010, IR-0011, NZ-0015,
      NZ-0016, NZ-0017, NZ-0018, NZ-0019, NZ-0020, NZ-0021, NZ-0022, NZ-0023,
      NZ-0024, NZ-0025, NZ-0026, NZ-0027, NZ-0028, NZ-0029, NZ-0031, NZ-0032,
      NZ-0033, NZ-0034, NZ-0035, NZ-0036, NZ-0037, NZ-0038, NZ-0039, NZ-0040,
      NZ-0041, NZ-0042, NZ-0043, NZ-0044, NZ-0045, NZ-0046, NZ-0047, NZ-0048,
      US-0096, US-0097, US-0098
    </p>
  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
