<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
<head>
  <title>Open Standards – Overview – FSFE</title>
</head>

<body class="article" microformats="h-entry">

 <p id="category">
	 <a href="/work.html">Our Work</a>
	 </p>
  
<h1 class="p-name">Open Standards</h1>

<div class="e-content">

<div id="introduction">


<p><a href="/activities/os/def.html">Open Standards</a> are the foundation 
of cooperation in modern society. They allow people to share all kinds 
of data freely, prevent vendor lock-in and other artificial barriers to 
interoperability, and promote choice between vendors and technology solutions. 
Open Standards are implementable with Free Software, and thus provide full 
competition in the market. FSFE advocates for fair competition, interoperability of 
solutions, and choice for consumers. Open Standards are necessary prerequisite 
to ensure these freedoms.</p>
 
 </div>

<h2 id="what-is-a-technical-standard">What is a technical standard?</h2>

<p>A technical standard is a set of commonly agreed rules in regard to technical 
systems. It is usually documented in a so-called 'standard specification' 
that describes ways to consistently organise information so that it can 
be understood and used by multiple independent applications. Standards 
which are used for information storage are called 'formats', and those 
for transmissing information are called 'protocols'.</p>

<p>A standard establishes common ground that provides means for interoperability 
and competition. The antipode of standardisation is monopoly: users of 
one product or service can only interoperate with users of the same product 
or service. Therefore, standards are used to enable competition for the 
public benefit.</p>
 
<p>Standards can also be beneficial for innovation by allowing all actors 
on the market to innovate on top of the standard and build their own services 
in order to serve the standard.</p>
 
<h2 id="why-open-standards">Why Open Standards?</h2>

<p>The problem arises when a standard is owned by one market player that uses 
her position to control the further development of the standard, or tries 
to manipulate it through licensing policies in order to exclude or include 
some specific groups of actors. In this case, the standardisation is used 
for contrary purposes than promoting competition and interoperability.</p>
 
<p>The full competition in the market is, therefore, provided by standards 
that are open. As Open Standards are freely available without any restrictions, 
they allow standardised technology to be used in products and services 
without any a priori advantage based on the ownership of the standard. 
As a consequence, the access to technology is allowed to all actors on 
the market irrespective of one's business model.</p>
 
 <h3 id="what-is-an-open-standard">What is an 'open' standard?</h3>
 
 <p>Open Standards are implementable with Free Software. If a standard does 
 not meet the following criteria, it discriminates against Free Software and 
 cannot be thus called an 'open' standard:</p>

 <p>An <a href="/activities/os/def.html">Open Standard</a> refers to a format 
 or protocol that is:</p>
 
 <ol>
<li>Subject to full public assessment and use without constraints in 
a manner equally available to all parties;</li>
<li>Without any components or extensions that have dependencies 
on formats or protocols that do not meet the definition of an Open 
Standard themselves;</li>
<li>Free from legal or technical clauses that limit its utilisation 
by any party or in any business model;</li>
<li>managed and further developed independently of any single vendor in 
a process open to the equal participation of competitors and third parties;</li>
<li>Available in multiple complete implementations by competing 
vendors, or as a complete implementation equally available to all 
parties.</li>
</ol>
 
<p>This way the standard ensures that technology is accessible for everyone, 
irrespective of business-model, size, or exclusive rights portfolio. </p>
 
<h2 id="why-should-a-stanard-be-minimalistic">Why should a standard be minimalistic?</h2>
 
<p>The aim of standards is to establish a common ground in technology and 
enable different applications to interact with each other. With more and 
more data being digitally stored, the more important is to ensure its 
portability between different applications. This is why it is essential 
to make sure that the format one chooses to store their data is accessible 
with multiple applications, irrespective of vendor or a technical solution.</p>
 
<p>This is why the standard needs to be not only open, but also 
<a href="/activities/os/minimalisticstandards.en.html">'minimalistic'</a>, 
in order to solve the technical problem adequately, and allow as many 
implementers of that standard as possible. In other words, there is a need 
to assess whether the standard is as simple as possible, and as complicated 
as necessary.</p>
 
<p>Overburdened standards with multiple unnecessary features gives its 
vendor an advantage: it is more difficult for another implementer to 
adequately read the format, and the customer is forced to a vendor lock-in. 
In addition, standards bloated with rarely used features leave backdoors 
and vulnerabilities for malicious attackers to take advantage of.</p> 
 
<h2 id="standard-that-is-implementable-with-free-software">Standard that 
is implementable with Free Software</h2>
 
<h3 id="reference-implementation">Reference implementation</h3>
 
<p>For software standards the actual standard is defined through both 
the formal specification and the actual implementation. Acquiring the 
formal specification is often not enough in order to implement the standard  
for complex digital systems. For any company wishing to implement the  
standard, knowledge of existing implementations is often even more  
valuable than the formal specification, as this helps to avoid the  
extended trial-and-error process for resolving ambiguities in formal  
specification.</p>
 
<p>Hence, for a standard to be sufficiently 'open', the openness needs to 
address both the specification and implementation.</p>
 
<p>Consequently, for open implementations it is economically more beneficial 
to publish reference implementations under a Free Software licence. 
This will allow the reference implementation to be freely available and 
also act as a  formal specification without the institutional process of 
 standard setting.</p>
 
<h3 id="patents-in-standards">Patents in standards</h3>
 
<p>Sometimes, the standard specification includes technical solutions 
that are needed in order to implement the standard. These technical 
solutions can be protected by patents. Whoever wishing to adopt and implement 
the standard has to, therefore, acquire the appropriate licence from the 
patent-holder.</p>
 
<p>Industry has turned to different licensing practices in order to overcome 
the issue of patents essential to standard implementation: for example 
'royalty-free' (RF) or an alternative 'fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory' 
(FRAND) terms. <a href="/activities/os/why-frand-is-bad-for-free-software.en.html">FRAND 
terms are incompatible with Free Software</a>. Furthermore, due to the 
fact that FRAND are usually kept secret, it is impossible to prove whether 
the imposed terms are objectively 'fair' or 'non-discriminatory'. 
Consequently, FRAND can be used as a tool to manipulate the standardisation 
process to exclude competition.</p>
 
<p>While RF licensing is addressing only the royalty-payment criteria, 
it does not address other restrictions that may be placed on adoption 
and implementation of a standard by Free Software. In this regard, the 
licensing policies of patented technology in standardisation have to be 
compatible with the widest range of actors on the market, as the purpose 
of standardisation is to promote competition and to allow innovation on 
top of it.</p>
 
<p>It is noteworthy, that hardly any new system in ICT is built without 
the use of Free Software, and the exclusion of companies basing their 
products on Free Software from standardisation can significantly hamper 
innovation. Therefore, the appropriate licence for standard-essential-patents 
is the one that is not placing any restrictions to the standard implementation
with Free Software, i.e. 'restriction-free', according to the 
<a href="#what-is-an-open-standard">Open Standard definition</a>.</p>
 
<h2 id="what-can-you-do">What can you do?</h2>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="as-a-citizen">As a citizen</h3>
 
<p>
<ul>Insist on Open Standards: don't let your government, university, employer, 
or a local public administration push you into using locked down formats.</ul>
</p>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
<h3 id="as-a-politician">As a politician</h3>
 
<ul>
<li>Promote policies that in practice ensure competition and innovation 
in standardisation, i.e. minimalistic Open Standards implementable with 
Free Software.</li>
<li>Promote licensing policies that are based on 'restriction-free' terms 
in order to achieve the widest adoption of standards and allow their 
implementation by all actors on the market.</li>
<li>Prioritise the use of Open Standards in public procurement and software 
development in order to increase the interoperability of all software 
solutions used in public sector.</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
 
</div>

  <h2>Related news</h2>

      <fetch-news/>
      
 </body>
  
<sidebar promo="open-standards">

 <dynamic-content />     

<h2>Further reading</h2>
      
 <ul>
 <li><a href="/activities/os/ps.html">"Analysis on balance: Standardisation and
   Patents"</a> by Georg Greve</li>
 <li><a href="/activities/os/why-frand-is-bad-for-free-software.html">Why
   FRAND is bad for Free Software?</a></li>
   <li><a href="/activities/os/eif-v3.en.html">FSFE's comments on the revision of 
 the European Interoperability Framework v.3</a></li>
 <li><a href="/activities/os/eifv2.html">"EIFv2: Tracking the loss of
   interoperability"</a> by Karsten Gerloff and Hugo Roy</li>
 <li><a href="/activities/os/bsa-letter-analysis.html">"Defending Open Standards:
   FSFE refutes BSA's false claims to European Commission"</a> by Karsten 
   Gerloff, Carlo Piana and Sam Tuke</li>
 <li><a href="http://fsfe.org/activities/os/2012-06-uk-consultation-os.en.html">FSFE's 
  submission to the UK Open Standards Consultation 2012</a></li>
 <li><a href="/activities/policy/eu/digital-single-market-comments.en.html">FSFE 
 comments on the EU Digital Single Market Strategy</a></li>
 <li><a href="/activities/policy/igf/sovsoft.html">"Sovereign Software: Open Standards,
  Free Software, and the Internet"</a> FSFE contribution to the first IGF</li>
 <li><a href="/activities/os/20150213.EC-patents-standards-consultation.FSFEresponse.pdf">FSFE response
 to the European Commission's consultation on patents and standards</a></li>
<li><a href="/activities/os/2014-03-26.OpenLetterToVilella.en.html">Open
   Letter on Document Freedom Day 2014 to Giancarlo Vilella, Director of the European Parliament's
   DG ITEC and Chair of the Inter-Institutional Committee for
   Informatics</a> by Karsten Gerloff</li>
</ul>

 <h2>External links of interest</h2>
 <ul>
  <li><a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.odfalliance.org">ODF Alliance</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders.org</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://www.fsf.org/resources/formats/playogg">Play Ogg!</a></li>
  <li><a href="http://isp.law.yale.edu/static/papers/Open_Documents_and_Democracy.pdf">"Open
   Documents and Democracy"</a> by Laura de Nardis and Eric Tam, Yale
  Information Society Project</li>
   <li><a href="http://www.intgovforum.org/Substantive_1st_IGF/openstandards-IGF.pdf">"An
   Economic Basis for Open Standards"</a> by Rishab A. Ghosh</li>
  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=160">"An emerging understanding
   of Open Standards"</a> by Georg Greve</li>
 </ul>

</sidebar>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
