<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html>
  <version>1</version>


	<head>
		<title>UK Open Standards: Time to act</title>
	</head>

	<body>
	
		<p id="category"><a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a></p>
		
		<h1>UK Open Standards: Time to act</h1>
		
		<p>
		The Cabinet Office is currently conducting an important <a
		href="http://consultation.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/openstandards/">consultation on
		Open Standards</a>
		</p>

		<p>
		The question is whether companies offering Free Software will in
		future have the opportunity to sell their services to the British
		government. Whether or not British money will continue to be spent on
		supporting  proprietary standards which lock in public bodies,
		currently hangs in  the balance.
		</p>

		<p>
		The Government has already publicly backed away from a strong
		definition of what an Open Standard is, and current indications are
		not at all good. On 12 April 2012, the Cabinet Office published an
		article indicating that it might lean away from freedom and openness,
		and towards adopting a definition of Open Standards  <a
		href="http://digital.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/2012/04/12/are-open-standards-a-closed
		-barrier/">which would
		exclude Free Software</a>.
		</p>

		<p>
		FSFE  is working with the Free Software Foundation, Open Rights Group,
		Open Source Consortium, Open Forum Europe, the Open Source Initiative
		and others, to ensure that strong responses are submitted in  favour
		of freedom. However, without the help of individuals like you, our
		voices risk being drowned out by those corporate interests who want to
		keep  public money tied up in their proprietary products.
		</p>

		<h2>What you can do</h2>

		<ol>

			<li><a href="#id-everyone">Everyone</a></li>
			<li><a href="#id-british-computer-society-members">British Computer Society members</a></li>

		</ol>

		<h3>Everyone</h3>

		<p>
		Please help FSFE and our partners to open up opportunities for Free
		Software by taking part in this public consultation. To do this,
		please download the <a
		href="http://consultation.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/openstandards/">questionnaire</a>
		and submit  your own response
		to the consultation before the May 1st deadline. You  can  answer as
		few or as many of the 27 questions as you wish (questions are on pages
		22 and 23 of the PDF). Some of the issues are complex. You may find the
		links at the end of this message useful when formulating your answers.
		Most important in your responses is to argue in favour of truly Open
		Standards - standards which anyone can implement, without asking
		permission or paying royalties, whether in Free Software or in
		proprietary programs. You will do it best in supporting
		restriction-free standards, which don't require those who implement
		them to pay patent  licensing royalties.
		</p>

		<p>
		Below, we have identified the questions which from FSFE's perspective
		matter most, and outlined how we are going to answer them in our own
		response to the consultation. You are welcome to use this as a guide
		for your own response. Please take some time to write personal answers
		in your own words - using the arguments given here.
		</p>

		<p>
		Please pay particular attention to the following questions, with 
		special consideration to question 8.
		</p>

		<dl>

			<dt>1. How does this definition of open standard compare to your view of
			what makes a standard 'open'?</dt>
			
			<dd>The formulation "Government bodies must consider open standards [...]"
			is relatively weak. We suggest to replace this with "use" as in the
			following: "Government bodies must use open standards [...]"
			It is also not clear what exactly is meant by a "government body".
			Software and in particular document formats come with strong network
			effects, and one government body using proprietary formats might cause
			problems for many others using formats based on Open Standards. If an
			Open Standards policy is to be effective, it needs to encompass the
			largest possible set of organisations. In summary, we propose the
			following formulation:</dd>
			
			<dd>"Public bodies or private bodies exercising public functions must
			use  open standards [...]"</dd>

			<dt>5. What effect would this policy have on improving value for money in
			the provision of government services?</dt>
			
			<dd>The policy would substantially open up competition for government
			business. For the buyers, this means lower prices, and better quality.
			The absence of lock-in would allow government bodies to switch
			suppliers with relative ease. This would lead to improved performance
			as vendors compete to keep government customers loyal.</dd>

			<dt>6. Would this policy support innovation, competition and choice in
			delivery of government services?</dt>
			
			<dd>Since Open Standards can be implemented without restrictions, the
			proposed policy would greatly contribute to supporting innovation,
			competition and choice in the delivery of government services.
			Standards provide a platform on on top of which businesses can
			compete, and Open Standards mean that there is no limit to the number
			and approaches which businesses can take to satisfy government needs.</dd>

			<dt>8.  How could adopting (Fair) Reasonable and Non Discriminatory
			((F)RAND)  standards deliver a level playing field for open source and
			proprietary  software solution providers?</dt>
			
			<dd>(F)RAND standards cannot deliver a level playing field for
			participants in the software market. Most (F)RAND standards require a
			royalty fee to be paid for each copy of a program that is distributed.
			This is eminently impossible for Free Software, which anyone may copy
			and distribute as they choose. It also clashes with the prohibition on
			additional restricitions imposed by the GNU General Public License,
			the most widely used Free Software license. (F)RAND standards also
			discriminate against Free Software distributed under "permissive"
			licenses that allow proprietary implementations, since they often lack
			a central body which could successfully negotiate for a patent
			license. As discussed <a
			href="http://blogs.computerworlduk.com/simon-says/2012/04/open-standards-
			consultation-guide/index.htm">here</a>, this is likely to pit small
			implementers against large, well-resourced patent holders, resulting
			anticompetitive terms.</dd>

			<dt>9. Does selecting open standards which are compatible with a free or
			open source software licence exclude certain suppliers or products?</dt>
			
			<dd>Selecting Open Standards does not exclude any supplier. Since by
			definition, there are no restrictions on implementing an Open
			Standard, developers of proprietary software have the option of
			including support for the relevant interfaces or file formats in their
			programs, at no cost beyond that of the implementation itself. Claims
			that requiring Open Standards would exclude one ygroup of suppliers are
			generally without merit.</dd>

			<dt>10. Does a promise of non-assertion of a patent when used in open
			source software alleviate concerns relating to patents and royalty
			charging?</dt>
			
			<dd>Businesses serving government needs need a firm legal basis to build
			upon. While a promise not to assert a patent is generally a friendly
			gesture by the patent holder, it is no replacement for a clear policy
			requirement for Open Standards, which can be implemented without
			royalty payments or restrictions. Promises of non-assertion may
			eventually be rescinded (e.g. when the patents it covers are sold to
			another company). Commitments made to standardisation organisations
			are much more reliable.</dd>

		</dl>

		<h3>British Computer Society members</h3>

		<p>The  British Computer Society is currently writing its own response to
		this consultation, which could have a major impact on the Government's
		future  policy. If you are a BCS member, use <a
		href="http://www.bcs.org/content/ConWebDoc/43785">this page</a> to tell the BCS
		why Open Standards are critical for Free Software, interoperability,
		and value  for public money.</p>


	</body>

	<date>
		<original content="2012-04-26" />
	</date>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
	
</html>
