<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html>

	<head>
		<title>Why is FRAND bad for Free Software?</title>
	</head>

  <body class="article" microformats="h-entry">

  <p id="category"><a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a></p>


    <h1 id="why-is-frand-bad-for-free-software">Why is FRAND bad for Free Software?</h1>

		<p>FRAND ("fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory") is an acronym 
		used to refer to a wide array of patent licensing practices 
		developed in the context of industry standards.</p>
		
		<p>Despite a technology being standardised, it is still possible 
		for someone to hold a patent over it in some jurisdictions. Since 
		commerce is global, this forces everyone to ask the patent holder 
		for a licence before implementing the invention, thus granting 
		her a broad power over her competitors. To reduce such power, 
		the industry resorted to agreements to bind patent holders to 
		certain licensing conditions, usually referred as the "fair, 
		reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) terms.</p>
		
		<p>In most cases, such licences make a proper Free Software implementation 
		of the standard impossible, due to numerous incompatibilities 
		with the way Free Software functions and is distributed. As a 
		consequence, FRAND licences cannot be considered fair, reasonable 
		nor non-discriminatory.</p>
		
		<h3 id="what-is-frand">What is FRAND?</h3>
		
		<p>A major challenge of FRAND is it is a fuzzy concept, involving 
		subjective judgment that can often only be made firm by legal 
		action. For example, there is no consensus on what are "fair", 
		"reasonable" and "non-discriminatory" terms:</p>
		
		<ul>
			<li><p><strong>Fair</strong> primarily relates to the underlying 
			licensing terms, which should not be anti-competitive nor would 
			be considered unlawful if imposed by a dominant firm in their 
			relative market.</p></li>
			
			<li><p><strong>Reasonable</strong> refers mainly to licensing rates.</p></li>
			
			<li><p><strong>Non-discriminatory</strong> relates to both 
			the terms and the rates, requiring similar treatment for each 
			licensee.</p></li>
		</ul>
		
		<h3 id="why-is-frand-incompatible-with-free-software">Why is FRAND incompatible with Free Software?</h3>
		
		<p>FRAND licence terms are usually negotiated in secret and kept 
		confidential by the parties involved. However, FRAND terms seem 
		to often require a payment of royalties based on the volume of 
		distribution (such as the number of distributed copies). They 
		also rarely allow sublicensing to the third parties, in a way 
		that requires no further action from the sublicensee to obtain 
		the same rights to implement the standard. It is a well established 
		fact that such requirements are incompatible with some of the 
		most common terms under which Free Software is developed and 
		distributed <a href="#fn1" class="fn" id="fnref1">1</a>.</p>
		
		<p>Free Software gives its user a high level of control over the 
		software by granting far-reaching freedoms to inspect the source 
		code, and to study and innovate upon that software. It is based 
		on the principle that everyone, whether an individual or a company, 
		can be a user, developer, distributor, or any combination of the 
		above. Only the terms that permit technology to be implemented 
		and distributed without violating these conditions will be in 
		practice compatible with Free Software <a href="#fn2" class="fn" id="fnref2">2</a>.</p>
		
		<p>For example, Section 7 of the GPL v2, which is one of the most 
		widely used Free Software licences, ensures that the presence of 
		any extra restriction preventing users from exercising the freedoms 
		in the license -i.e. imposing patent royalties or the requirement 
		to obtain an individual licence- revokes the right to continue 
		distribution of the software.</p>
		
		<p>As Free Software gives each user the freedom to redistribute 
		the software itself, keeping track and collecting royalties based 
		on distributed copies is also, in practice, impossible. This is 
		not just a matter of source code licenses; any terms which require 
		a developer to seek additional permission beyond the licence in 
		order to use, improve or share the software are incompatible with 
		the norms of open communities developing Free Software.</p>
		
		<p>Another incompatibility of FRAND with Free Software lies in 
		the requirement of the individual licence that usually cannot be 
		automatically transferred to the third parties. This is contradictory 
		to Free Software that automatically grants the same rights and 
		freedoms to downstream recipients without the necessity to 
		sublicense.</p>
		
		<p>Consequently, it has been estimated that due to modern near-universal 
		software development practices, hardly any new product on the 
		software market is built without containing easily accessible 
		Free Software code<a href="#fn3" class="fn" id="fnref3">3</a>, 
		which makes Free Software indispensable for innovation and the 
		economic growth.</p>
		
		<p>In this respect, the "non-discriminatory" criterion cannot be 
		met, as it excludes substantial number of actors and innovative 
		force that work with Free Software from implementing the FRAND 
		licensed technology. Subsequently, it follows that a FRAND-licensed 
		Standard Essential Patent (SEP) is neither "fair" nor "reasonable".</p>
		
		<h3 id="can-frand-be-really-frand-for-free-software">Can FRAND be really FRAND for Free Software?</h3>
		
		<p>Some rare FRAND terms allow payment of a lump sum amount, so 
		that the developers can avoid keeping track of the distributed 
		copies. This practice might seem like a viable option, but only 
		big corporations with a dedicated legal department are capable 
		of negotiating such terms, thus excluding individual programmers 
		and small and medium enterprises (SMEs). It is essential to 
		ensure that different actors can enter the market, especially in 
		the ICT sector, where it is not unusual to go from being a start-up 
		to a leader company in less than a decade.</p>
		
		<p>Easier access to standardised technologies will instead contribute 
		to competition, as more new players will be allowed to emerge on 
		the market and base their ideas on the existing technologies.</p>
		
		<p>The requirement of royalties-per-copy in FRAND is not the only 
		obstacle between standard's implementation in Free Software.
		The inherent incompatibility lies within the fact that FRAND 
		completely neutralises the collaborative open model behind Free 
		Software, by restricting the exercise of freedoms granted by the 
		latter.</p>
		
		<p>For example, it is common for FRAND to include the requirement 
		to contact the SEP holder to obtain an individual licence. This 
		is also discriminatory against Free Software, because it would 
		require any user willing to redistribute modified versions to 
		contact the SEP holder, wasting time and resources and seriously 
		impairing the collaborative model that drives Free Software. 
		History shows developers avoid technologies licensed in this way.</p>
		
		<p>The appropriate licensing scheme for Free Software would be 
		the one that places no restrictions in exercising rights granted 
		by  Free Software, so-called "Restrcition free" terms. Similar 
		licence terms can be achieved by forcing FRAND to be compatible 
		with the GPL by definition. Standard setting organisations (SSOs) 
		can require participants to the standardisation process to explicitly 
		agree that a licence is FRAND only if it allows the use and distribution 
		of the essential patented technology under terms that are not less 
		restrictive than the GNU GPL v.2 or any later version.</p>
		
		<p>Furthermore, to ensure that such a policy is not circumvented, 
		SSOs should carefully consider the status of all the components 
		of any new standard. It is not uncommon for a new standard to be 
		built upon a previous one. If the latter was drafted under 
		different rules (e.g. allowing royalty-based FRAND or 
		unrestricted patents), the full implementation of the new standard 
		may depend on the licensing terms of SEPs included in the older 
		standard. Such a situation will undermine the efforts that were 
		made to properly address the problem of SEPs.</p>
		
		<p>It is also not uncommon for companies to place so-called 
		"blanket claims", that is to declare that they own SEP without 
		specifying any details of such patents.<a href="#fn4" class="fn" id="fnref4">4</a> 
		This practice in addition to the policies adopted in several SSOs 
		that do not guarantee the accuracy of the information provided, 
		place unnecessary and burdensome barriers for the standard implementation 
		by any developer wishing to do so. Hence, the final necessary 
		complement to this setup is an adequate enforcement system to 
		ensure that patent holders are kept to their obligations.</p>
		
		<h3 id="why-frand-is-not-good-for-software">Why FRAND is not good for software?</h3>
		
		<p>In the field of standards governing software, internet and web, 
		there is a distinct absence of SEPs<a href="#fn5" class="fn" id="fnref5">5</a>.</p>
		
		<p>This is particularly evident in the policies of several SSOs 
		working in these fields: for example the vast majority of standards 
		recognised by the Organisation for the Advancement of Structured 
		Information Standards (OASIS) requires royalty free terms<a href="#fn6" class="fn" id="fnref6">6</a> 
		and although the option of FRAND is included in their policy, OASIS 
		recognises its trend towards royalty-free standards<a href="#fn7" class="fn" id="fnref7">7</a>. 
		The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) discourages encumbered 
		patent standards in the general instructions to their working 
		groups<a href="#fn8" class="fn" id="fnref8">8</a>. Even better, 
		the W3C requires any SEP to be licenced to everyone on royalty 
		free basis<a href="#fn9" class="fn" id="fnref9">9</a>.</p>
		
		<p>SEP and FRAND emanated from telecommunications sector and through 
		traditional SSOs, while software, internet and web standards have 
		developed in a more collaborative way, i.e. through fora and 
		consortia<a href="#fn10" class="fn" id="fnref10">10</a>. This 
		difference has to be taken into account while regulating the work 
		of SSOs. Applying the model that has been developed for one sector 
		to another, which has practically and historically developed in a 
		different way, can lead to consequences opposite to the aim of 
		standardisation. As such, the approach of 'one size fits all' is 
		inappropriate and can stifle innovation instead of encouraging it.</p>
		
		<h3 id="the-alternative-to-frand">The alternative to FRAND</h3>
		
		<p>The way to achieve the widest interoperability and competition 
		on the market is to adopt Open Standards that are compatible with 
		Free Software.<a href="#fn11" class="fn" id="fnref11">11</a></p>
		
		<p>The rapid development of software, web and internet technology 
		has been largely based on Open Standards, which are available 
		free of restrictions and royalties. This shows that restriction-free 
		standards are crucial in an environment where innovation is rapid 
		and accumulative, and where most actors are small and lack the 
		resources to engage in sophisticated patent licensing transactions. 
		Licensing conditions that pose barriers for such actors to enter 
		the market or compete with their large counterparts are 
		significantly hampering the competition and as such cannot be 
		called fair, reasonable or non-discriminatory. Therefore, only 
		licences that are truly Restriction free allow the standard to be 
		an Open Standard, i.e. "free from legal or technical clauses 
		that limit its utilisation by any party or in any business 
		model"<a href="#fn12" class="fn" id="fnref12">12</a>.</p>
		
		<p>Furthermore, drafting such standards in a minimalistic<a href="#fn13" class="fn" id="fnref13">13</a>
		way will ensure that companies of different size are actually in 
		the position to implement them, which will achieve true non-discrimination 
		across different business sizes and models. This will also contribute 
		to the wider and more effective adoption of standards across industries. 
		Non-minimalistic standards are instead cumbersome and require huge 
		investments of time and resources to be implemented.</p>
		
		<p>In addition to Open Standards, the widest adoption of standards 
		can be in practice achieved by allowing software to act as as reference 
		implementation too. This is particularly important because for 
		most software standards the formal specification is insufficient, 
		and the actual standard is defined both through the written 
		specification and actual implementations. For the implementer 
		the reference implementation is more valuable because it allows 
		her to avoid the extended phase of trial-and-error in order to 
		resolve specification ambiguities. Hence publishing software under 
		Free Software licences will contribute to the widest adoption of 
		standards in practice.</p>
		
		<h2 id="conclusion">Conclusion</h2>
		
		<p>FRAND is not only incompatible with most of Free Software, but 
		is not designed to govern software at all.</p>
		
		<p>In order to overcome this contradiction, it is necessary to 
		ensure that SEPs are licensed under terms that are compatible with 
		Free Software, e.g. Restriction free. However, this option might 
		still place additional obstacles to the implementation of 
		innovative technology in Free Software, depending on the actual 
		content of the SEP licence and on the enforcing capabilities of 
		the standard setting organisation.</p>
		
		<p>The widest adoption of standards, which is in principle the aim 
		of FRAND, can be achieved by developing them as open and minimalistic 
		and by requiring a reference implementation released as Free Software.
		These standards will ensure the widest competition of different 
		Free Software and proprietary actors on the market, without excluding 
		one or the other.</p>
		
		<h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>
		
		<ol>
			<li id="fn1"><p>Ian Mitchell, Stephen Mason, <a href="http://www.ifosslr.org/ifosslr/article/view/57">"Compatibility Of The Licensing Of Embedded Patents With Open Source Licensing Terms""</a>, IFOSSLR, 2011.<a href="#fnref1" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn2"><p>Georg Greve, <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/ps.en.html">"Analysis on balance: Standardisation and Patents"</a>, 2008.<a href="#fnref2" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn3"><p>Björn Lundell et al., <a href="http://his.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:925474/FULLTEXT01.pdf">"On Implementation of Open Standards in Software: To What Extent Can ISO Standards be Implemented in Open Source Software"</a>, International Journal of Standardization Research,Vol. 13, no 1, 47-73 p, 2015.<a href="#fnref3" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn4"><p>Rudi Bekkers, Joel West, <a href="http://home.tm.tue.nl/rbekkers/Bekkers%20West%20%28forthcoming%20Jan%2009%29%20Telecommunications%20Policy.pdf">"The Limits to IPR Standardization Policies as Evidenced by Strategic Patenting in UMTS"</a>,Telecommunications Policy, 2009.<a href="#fnref4" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn5"><p>Mark Bohhanon, <a href="http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2477533">"Out of the Murky Lagoon and into… Is there a Emerging Consistent US Government Policy on Standard Essential Patents?"</a>, 2014.<a href="#fnref5" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn6"><p>OASIS, <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/org/faq">FAQ section</a>, question No. 7. “What are the IPR Policies of OASIS?”.<a href="#fnref6" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn7"><p><a href="http://www.nist.gov/standardsgov/upload/OASIS.pdf">“OASIS response to NSTC request for feedback on standard practices”</a>, 75 FR 76397 (2011).<a href="#fnref7" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn8"><p>IETF, <a href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3979">RFC 3979</a>.<a href="#fnref8" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn9"><p><a href="http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#sec-Requirements">W3C patent policy</a>.<a href="#fnref9" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn10"><p>Mark Bohhanon, <a href="http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2477533">“Out of the Murky Lagoon and into… Is there a Emerging Consistent US Government Policy on Standard Essential Patents?”</a>, 2014-08-08.<a href="#fnref10" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn11"><p>Rishab Gosh, <a href="http://www.flosspols.org/deliverables/FLOSSPOLS-D04-openstandards-v6.pdf">“An Economic Basis for Open Standards”</a>, Policy Report of FLOSSPOLS Project managed by the European Commission, University of Maastricht, 2005.<a href="#fnref11" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn12"><p><a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/def.en.html">Open standard definition</a>.<a href="#fnref12" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
			<li id="fn13"><p>Bernhard Reiter, <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/minimalisticstandards.en.html">“The minimal principle: because being an open standard is not enough”</a>.<a href="#fnref13" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
		</ol>
	</body>
	
	<date>
		<original content="2016-06-20"/>
	</date>
	
	<sidebar promo="our-work">
		<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
		
		<ul>
			<li><a href="#what-is-frand">What is FRAND?</a></li>
			<li><a href="#why-is-frand-incompatible-with-free-software">Why is FRAND incompatible with Free Software?</a></li>
			<li><a href="#can-frand-be-really-frand-for-free-software">Can FRAND be really FRAND for Free Software?</a></li>
			<li><a href="#why-frand-is-not-good-for-software">Why FRAND is not good for software?</a></li>
			<li><a href="#the-alternative-to-frand">The alternative to FRAND</a></li>
			<li><a href="#conclusion">Conclusion</a></li>
		</ul>
		
		<h2>Related links</h2>
		
		<ul>
			<li><a href="/campaigns/swpat/background.en.html">Background information on patents</a></li>
			<li><a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.en.html">Software patents in Europe</a></li>
			<li><a href="http://en.swpat.org/wiki/Software_patents_wiki:_home_page">Ending software patents</a></li>
			<li><a href="activities/os/os.en.html">More on Open Standards</a></li>
		</ul>
	</sidebar>

<tags>
  <tag content="Open Standards">OpenStandards</tag>
</tags>

</html>
