<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Projects - STACS - Belgrade</title>
  </head>

  <body>

  <center>
    <h1>Free Software Research and Civil Society</h1>
    <h2>Belgrade, 4th December 2007</h2>
  </center>

  <h3>The Event</h3>
  <p>
The Free Software Foundation Europe would like to invite you to a workshop
as part of the STACS project (FP6-2005-Science-and-Society-19-044597). The
STACS project wants to explore the possibility of joint research projects
between civil society and public research bodies. This workshop is one step
in that process and will serve as a research project "incubator", trying to
identify and activate possible research cooperations.</p>

<p>One goal of the workshop is to see at least two different research projects
discussed and jumpstarted following the meeting, which is scheduled to take
place in Belgrade on the 4th of December 2007. As spaces are limited, we
invite you to fill out an application to attend this workshop. If you are
selected to attend, the STACS project will offer to cover your travel and
accommodation expenses for the workshop.</p>

<p>If you are a member of a civil society organisation or a researcher working
with Free Software or Free Software related issues, we look forward to
receiving your applicating for participation. This will allow you to
participate on behalf of your organisation in shaping research projects in
your area.</p>


  <h3>Venue</h3>

   <p>The workshop will take place at the Hotel M Best Western at
	Bulevard Oslobodenja 56a, Belgrade. Participants will be
	invited to be accommodated at the same hotel for convenience.
	Transportation to and from the hotel will also be taken care of.</p>



  <h3>Schedule</h3>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2"><center><strong>Tuesday 4th December</strong></center></td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td>14.00</td><td>Introduction to STACS</td></tr>
    <tr><td>14.15</td><td>Opportunities for research on Free Software</td></tr>
    <tr><td>15.00</td><td>Results of pre-workshop exercises</td></tr>
    <tr><td>15.15</td><td>Break-out sessions (various research topics)</td></tr>
    <tr><td>16.30</td><td>Coffee/tea break</td></tr>
    <tr><td>17.00</td><td>Results of the sessions</td></tr>
    <tr><td>17.45</td><td>Exploring proposals for research projects</td></tr>
    <tr><td>18.30</td><td>Conclusions</td></tr>
    <tr><td>18.45</td><td>Feedback from participants</td></tr>
    <tr><td>19.00</td><td>Dinner and social event</td></tr>
   </table>

  <h3>Apply to participate</h3>
  <p>
   <a href="belgrade-register">Apply to participate here &#187;</a>
  </p>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
