<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Democracy needs Free Software</h1>
<p align="right"><em>
-- <b><a href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.en.html">Matthias Kirschner</a></b>
<br />23. December 2010
</em></p>

<p>Democracy needs Free Software</p>

<p>Our society has always been influenced by technologies. Reading, writing, arithmetic, but also agriculture, printing and the radio changed the way we trade, practice arts or science. The most important cultural tecology of the 21st century is software. The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is committed to ensuring people in our society the right to design this technology the way they want.</p>

<p>Nowadays, we can no longer think about life without software. A vast majority of us can't spend a whole day without using software. A lot of people know software from their computer in the office, from their laptop or their mobile phone. But they are also there, where people don't expect them to be: in trains, cars, televisions, washing-machines, fridges, and many others. All these devices would be worthless without software. Without software, we couldn't write e-mails, nor could we make phone calls, neither could we go shopping or travel the way we are now used to. Software is our society's central instrument.</p>

<p>If we let other people decide upon our instruments, they will be able to exert influence on us. The one who decides upon a search engine, determines what we find. The one who controls our e-mails can censor us. The simple fact of controlling a communication service results in having the power to decide who can exchange with whom and about what. The one who decides operating mode of software in a firm can influence or hinder work processes.</p>

<p>In our modern democracies, powers are separated. We distribute legislative, executive and udiciary powers between different institutions. We distribute the responsibilities between several levels of competence, e.g. the federal state, the federated states and the regions. The liberty of the press is there to prevent the appartition of an informational monopol, where too much power would be concentrated in too few hands.The aim is always to balance powers so that even our biggest contradictory has a place in the democratic system.</p>

<p>It would represent a great danger for our democracy if software as central instrument of our society was only controlled by a few people. Not only does our communication depend on software, but also a big part of our infrstructure. The FSFE wants to voice the interests of the users and to give the control on software to everybody. Society cannot make itself dependant on others when it comes to design one of its central instruments.</p>

<p>Our society must give to everybody the possibility to design this instrument on their own. To do so, we need the freedoms to use the software for any purpose, to understand its operating mode, to distribute it and to improve it.</p>

<ul><li>Use: The freedom to use the software for any purpose hinders discrimination and gives everybody the possibility to participate in the society.</li>
<li>Study: Our society must have the reedom to understand the operating mode of its most important instrument.</li>
<li>Share: the freedom to share the software ensures that we can help one another in distributing the software.</li>
<li>Improve: Lastly, a society must have the possibility to change its instruments or to let them be changed in oder to developp them and to adapt them to personal needs.</li></ul>

<p>Software that ensure these four freedoms are Free Software.</p>

<p>The Free Software Foundations in the USA, in Europe, in India and in Latin America are committed since 1985 to these four freedoms. In quality of independent and non-profit organization, the FSFE maintains a dialog with politics, administrations and other organizations with the same goals in order to ensure that frame regulations are set at the UN level, the European Union level and the national level that allows every people to participate in the digital era. This entails preventing the adoption of laws that limit the freedoms of the software user. We carry the idea of Free software in the most diverse parts of society. We advise free software developpers so that they can focus on programming better instruments. We explain the advantages that free software represent for them. We help software firms to understand how they can make money with Free Software. Society profits from all these activities since it gets better instruments and keeps the control over them.</p>

<p>A democratic society needs strong backing. One of them is free Software.</p>

<p><em>Reöark: I've long wanted to write about the relevance of Free Software for our democracies. When he FSFE was awarded with the Theodor Heuss medal on the 8th of May 2010, the foundation wanted to have a text from the FSFE on the leaflet. This was a good occasion to tae the notes and the ideas I had on the subject, shorten them and really wrtie them properly down. Many thanks to Alexander Kahl, Bernhard Reiter, Constantin Engel, Michael Kesper, Reinhard Müller and Torsten Grote for their comments and improvements and to Karsten Gerloff for the linguistic polishing.</em></p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-04-23 15:56:18 +0100 (Mon, 23 May 2010) $ $Author: Matthias Kirschner$</timestamp>
<translator>maelle</translator>
</html>

