<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p id="category">
      <a href="/freesoftware/">Free Software</a>
    </p>

    <h1>Democracy needs Free Software</h1>

    <p>
      <a href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.en.html">Matthias Kirschner</a><br />
      23 December 2010
    </p>

    <p>
      Our society has always been influenced by technologies.  Reading,
      writing, arithmetic, but also agriculture, printing and the radio
      changed the way we trade, practice arts or science.  The most
      important cultural technology of the 21st century is software.  The
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is committed to ensuring
      people in our society the right to design this technology the way
      they want.
    </p>

    <p>
      Nowadays, we can no longer think about life without software.   A
      vast majority of us can't spend a whole day without using
      software.  A lot of people know software from their computer in the
      office, from their laptop or their mobile phone.  But they are also
      there, where people don't expect them to be:  in trains, cars,
      televisions, washing-machines, fridges, and many others.  All these
      devices would be worthless without software.  Without software, we
      couldn't write e-mails, nor could we make phone calls, neither
      could we go shopping or travel the way we are now used to.
      Software is our society's central instrument.
    </p>

    <p>
      If we let other people decide upon our instruments, they will be
      able to exert influence on us.  The one who decides upon a search
      engine, determines what we find.  The one who controls our e-mails
      can censor us.  The simple fact of controlling a communication
      service results in having the power to decide who can exchange
      with whom and about what.  The one who decides operating mode of
      software in a firm can influence or hinder work processes.
    </p>

    <p>
      In our modern democracies, powers are separated.  We distribute
      legislative, executive and udiciary powers between different
      institutions.  We distribute the responsibilities between several
      levels of competence, e.g.  the federal state, the federated states
      and the regions.  The liberty of the press is there to prevent the
      appartition of an informational monopol, where too much power
      would be concentrated in too few hands.The aim is always to
      balance powers so that even our biggest contradictory has a place
      in the democratic system.
    </p>

    <p>
      It would represent a great danger for our democracy if software as
      central instrument of our society was only controlled by a few
      people.  Not only does our communication depend on software, but
      also a big part of our infrstructure.  The FSFE wants to voice the
      interests of the users and to give the control on software to
      everybody.  Society cannot make itself dependant on others when it
      comes to design one of its central instruments.
    </p>

    <p>
      Our society must give to everybody the possibility to design this
      instrument on their own.  To do so, we need the freedoms to use the
      software for any purpose, to understand its operating mode, to
      distribute it and to improve it.
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Use:</strong> The freedom to use the software for any
        purpose hinders discrimination and gives everybody the
        possibility to participate in the society.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Study:</strong> Our society must have the reedom to
        understand the operating mode of its most important
        instrument.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Share:</strong> The freedom to share the software
        ensures that we can help one another in distributing the
        software.
      </li>

      <li>
        <strong>Improve:</strong> Lastly, a society must have the
        possibility to change its instruments or to let them be changed
        in oder to developp them and to adapt them to personal needs.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Software that ensure these four freedoms are Free Software.
    </p>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundations in the USA, in Europe, in India and
      in Latin America are committed since 1985 to these four freedoms.
      In quality of independent and non-profit organization, the FSFE
      maintains a dialog with politics, administrations and other
      organizations with the same goals in order to ensure that frame
      regulations are set at the UN level, the European Union level and
      the national level that allows every people to participate in the
      digital era.  This entails preventing the adoption of laws that
      limit the freedoms of the software user.  We carry the idea of Free
      software in the most diverse parts of society.  We advise free
      software developpers so that they can focus on programming better
      instruments.  We explain the advantages that free software
      represent for them.  We help software firms to understand how they
      can make money with Free Software.  Society profits from all these
      activities since it gets better instruments and keeps the control
      over them.
    </p>

    <p>
      A democratic society needs strong backing.   One of them is free
      Software.
    </p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-04-23 15:56:18 +0100 (Mon, 23 May 2010) $ $Author: Matthias Kirschner$</timestamp>
</html>

