<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Free Software in Society</title>
  </head>
<body>
<h1>Free Software preserves our system</h1>

<!-- this text comes orignially from /campaigns/wsis/fs.en.xhtml and should be
completed by Hugo's article at
blog.fsfe.org/hugo/why-free-software-matters-for-society-draft.
-->

<h3>Development</h3>
<p>When thinking about Free Software, it should be seen as an encompassing
  concept for a reliable, sustainable and dependable information and knowledge
  society involving all stakeholders.</p>

<p>The price we are paying for the predominance of the proprietary software
  approach is high. Because the proprietary software paradigm has a strong,
  system-inherent monopolising tendency [<A NAME="ref5"
    HREF="#5">5</A>] and software permeates all areas of
  economy, northern economies suffer and southern countries are given the
  choice between exclusion or co-suffering in total dependence. That is why
  breaking up Microsoft without a change in paradigm would not improve the
  situation significantly. Free Software, on the other hand, brings back
  competition while allowing cooperation among companies, people, and
  governments. All of these equally available and empowering to all the
  peoples.</p>

<p>While minorities remain at the mercy of large multinational companies
  regarding support for their culture and language when using proprietary
  software, Free Software gives them freedom to modify all software according
  to their needs. Thus, Free Software also allows building a sustainable local
  hard- and software industry independent from monopolies and large
  multinationals. Of course cooperation with large companies is possible and
  may be useful, but while dependency is the price to pay for such cooperation
  in proprietary software, Free Software provides independence.</p>

<h3>Equality</h3>
<p>The design, development and use of software is increasing in all societies.
  Increasingly, access to software is largely determining our capabilities for
  education, communication, work and even social networking. This includes
  building social movements, promoting citizenship and transparent democracy as
  well as general governmental and health services.</p>

<p>Software in general has grown into northern societies to a very large extent
  and if development policies are successful, this will also be true for
  southern societies at some point in time. Therefore software must be
  considered a cultural technique, sometimes even a cultural good.</p>

<p>For all central cultural techniques, we have to ask who should be put in
  control of it. Proprietary software puts large northern multinationals in
  control. [<A NAME="ref6" HREF="#6">6</A>] Free Software
  makes this cultural technique equally available to all the peoples.</p>

<h3>Human Rights</h3>
<p>For those who are connected - and we surely hope this will mean all the
  peoples at some point - human rights of participation in culture, freedom of
  speech and opinion are influenced to a large extent by their control over the
  software they use, as are freedom of association and movement. Software forms
  the medium. Unlike the proprietary approach, Free Software gives each person
  full control about their personal information space. Although this alone is
  not sufficient to grant privacy and security, it is a necessary
  prerequisite.</p>

<h3>Preventing Technocracy - upholding democracy</h3>
<p>Legislation should be developed by democratically elected representatives in
  a transparent way. Even in situations where this is true, rights that cannot
  be exercised remain empty. Granting rights on paper does not mean people will
  have the means of exercising them.</p>

<p>The complexity of modern systems alone makes it a difficult task to uphold
  democracy in the digital domain, but the overall intransparency of
  proprietary software makes it impossible.  Unless you are using Free
  Software, the rights you can or cannot exercise are determined by the
  proprietary software vendor - it is the vendors decision alone, a decision
  that nowadays is often given precendence over the democratic legislative
  process.</p>

<p>Good examples are the European Copyright Directive (EUCD) and Digital
  Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), both implementations of the "The World
  Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Copyright Treaty" (December 1996).
  While the DMCA already gained notoriety for enabling censorship of
  Scientology-critical sites in the United States, [<A NAME="ref7"
    HREF="#7">7</A>] the German implementation of the EUCD is
  silently making the right to fair use inaccessible. Although laws clearly
  state that customers have the right to copy a CD for their car stereo or even
  a friend, those who exercise this right on so-called "copy protected" CDs
  or on any DVD now risk punishment. And if you think this is where it ends,
  feel free to read the EFF paper on so-called "Trusted Computing" (TC). [<A
    NAME="ref8" HREF="#8">8</A>] </p>

<p>Proprietary software effectively puts an area that was previously governed
  by democratically elected representatives into the hand of corporations,
  therefore establishing technocracy. [<A NAME="ref9"
    HREF="#9">9</A>] </p>


<h3>Summary</h3>
<p>All of our hard work to defend and promote human rights, gender equality,
  rights of the disadvantaged, a free media, privacy and security, digital
  solidarity and other issues is in danger of having been for naught if the
  information age is based on proprietary software.</p>

<p>Free Software alone is certainly not enough to overcome all problems - but
  it is a necessity to empower people to exercise the rights we are fighting
  for in the information societies.</p>

<h3>References</h3>

<p>[<A NAME="5" HREF="#ref5">5</A>] Explanation of these mechanisms will gladly be provided, if of interest.</p>

<p>[<A NAME="6" HREF="#ref6">6</A>] Side note: Which should
  not be understood as a good thing for people in the northern countries. It is
  not.</p>

<p>[<A NAME="7" HREF="#ref7">7</A>] For reference, see <code class="footnote">
    <A NAME="ref11"
      HREF="http://www-camlaw.rutgers.edu/publications/law-religion/scientology.htm">http://www-camlaw.rutgers.edu/publications/law-religion/scientology.htm</A></code>
  (not available any more)</p>

<p>[<A NAME="8" HREF="#ref8">8</A>] <code class="footnote">
    <A NAME="ref13" HREF="http://www.eff.org/files/20031001_tc.pdf">http://www.eff.org/files/20031001_tc.pdf</A></code></p>

<p>[<A NAME="9" HREF="#ref9">9</A>] Technocracy: "Government by technicians or management of society by technical experts." (Merriam Webster Dictionary)</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-02-22 12:22:10 +0100 (Mon, 22 Feb 2010) $ $Author: maelle$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
