<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-02-09">
  <head>
	  <title>European Patent: FSFE urges European Parliament to wait for legal advice</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>European Patent: FSFE urges European Parliament to wait for legal advice</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">
    Free Software Foundation Europe is asking the Members of the European
    Parliament to wait for legal advice before voting on a unitary patent
    for Europe. While a proposal is on the Parliament's agenda for the
    coming week, a legal opinion by the European Court of Justice is
    expected later this month.
    </p>

    <p>
    "Software patents hurt innovation and are an unnecessary burden on
    European software developers," says Karsten Gerloff, President of the
    Free Software Foundation Europe. "Legislators need to take charge and
    make sure the patent system contributes to the public good. As the
    European Patent Organisation has acknowledged, this is a decision that
    cannot be left to bureaucrats and the judiciary."
    </p>

    <p>
    FSFE is concerned that the European Parliament will lose legislative
    competence regarding patents, which will then be controlled by the
    European Patent Organisation.  This clearly creates a conflict of
    interest, as the EPO will be responsible both for awarding patents and
    for defining what is patentable. The EPO's expansionist record in this
    regard gives cause to worry that this will lead to software patents
    being validated.
    </p>

    <p>
    The European Court of Justice is expected to publish its opinion about
    the proposed "enhanced cooperation" of EU member states towards creating a
    single patent system for Europe. Documents published so far indicate
    that the Court will find the proposal in conflict with the EU
    treaties.  Resolving these will require fundamental changes to the
    proposal.  The Parliament's vote should take place after these changes
    so that the Parliament can review the actual proposal.
    </p>

    <p>
    FSFE hopes that the vote will be delayed until the Parliament can read
    the Court of Justice's opinion and has had time to analyse this
    proposal.
    </p>


    <h2>Contacts</h2>

    <p>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      E-Mail: press at fsfeurope.org<br/><br/>

      Karsten Gerloff, President<br/>
      +49-176-96904298<br/>

      <a href="http://fsfe.org/contact/">More contact information</a>
    </p>

    <h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

    <p>
    The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-
    governmental organisation active in many European countries and 
    involved in many global activities. Access to software determines 
    participation in a digital society. To secure equal participation in 
    the information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free
    Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the 
    furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study, 
    modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
    securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people
    Freedom by supporting development of Free Software are central issue 
    of the FSFE.
    </p>

  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

