<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2011-03-30">
  <head>
    <title>Document Freedom Day celebrated around the world</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
    <h1>Document Freedom Day celebrated around the world</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">
      Today, activists in 37 cities around the world are raising awareness for
      Open Standards and open document formats. In workshops, talks and other
      events, they are explaining why Open Standards and Free Software are crucial
      to a free and competitive information society.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      "It's great to see the power of the community behind Document Freedom Day",
      says campaign coordinator Fernanda Weiden. "I am very proud of the effort
      that so many people are putting into showing the world that Open Standards
      and digital freedom are essential."
    </p>
    
    <p>
      The City of Munich, Germany, receives this year's European Document Freedom
      Day prize.
      "Munich shows in an exemplary manner what a large public body can achieve
      with Free Software and Open Standards. The LiMux project gives Munich a
      leading role in Europe. We hope that many others will come to share this
      progressive approach", says Karsten Gerloff, President of the Free Software
      Foundation Europe.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Various events are taking place around the world. In Brazil, the Federal
      Data Processing Company - Serpro - is holding events in 10 cities. In the
      European Parliament, experts are discussing Open Standards as a means to
      guarantee access to cultural works in the long term. Groups in Argentina,
      Belgium, Brazil, Croatia, Greece, Germany, Italy, Mexico,
      Netherlands, Panama, Portugal, Spain and United Kingdom are participating in
      this year’s celebration.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Open Standards are a common language, publicly documented, that computer
      programs can speak. They are central to interoperability and freedom of
      choice in technology. Open Standards allow Free Software developers to
      create programs that can interoperate with other solutions, so users can
      migrate away from proprietary solutions.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      There is still time to join this celebration! Check for a nearby event at
      http://documentfreedom.org/2011/events/events.en.html and participate!
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Document Freedom Day 2011 is facilitated by the Free Software Foundation
      Europe, and supported by campaign patrons Google and Oracle.
    </p>

  </body>
  
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>DFD</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
