<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-02-02">
  <head>
	  <title>Freedom to Read, Freedom to Write: Celebrating Document Freedom Day 2011</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Freedom to Read, Freedom to Write: Celebrating Document Freedom Day 2011</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">
Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) invites individuals, community
groups and institutions to celebrate the Document Freedom Day (DFD) on
March 30th. DFD is a global day to celebrate Open Standards and open
document formats and its importance. Open Standards ensure the freedom
to access your data, and the freedom to build Free Software to write
and read data in specific formats.
</p>

<p>
You can participate by organizing activities in your home town.
Distributing fliers, organizing talks, adding a banner on your blog,
donating money: there are many ways you can help spread awareness
about Open Standards.
</p>

<p>
We would like at least 25 cities to take part in Document Freedom Day
2011. Help us to make this event a global success!
</p>

<p>
For more information about the event, please have a look at
<a href="http://documentfreedom.org">documentfreedom.org</a>.
</p>

<p>
Find out <a href="http://documentfreedom.org/2011/getinvolved.en.html">
how to get involved</a>.
</p>

<h2>Why Document Freedom Day?</h2>

<p>
An ever greater part of our communication moves into the digital
world. In the digital society, Open Standards and open document
formats provide us with the freedom to read and write. They are
crucial to ensure our ability to exchange information, remain
independent of software vendors, and keep our data accessible in the
long term. Open Standards also make sure that we are able to
communicate and work using Free Software.
</p>

<h2>What are Open Standards?</h2>

<p>
Open Standards are a common language that all computers can speak.
They enable us to work and communicate using Free Software. They make
it possible for developers to write Free Software applications that
are compatible with other solutions, and allow users to migrate to
Free Software solutions without losing access to their data.
</p>

<h2>What is the aim of the Campaign?</h2>

<p>
The campaign brings a message about Open Standards and document
formats to a non-technical audience. Open  Standards are a basic
condition for freedom and choice in software.  Document Freedom Day
raises awareness for Open Standards and lets  everyone contribute to a
better information society. It's easy and fun  to participate in
Document Freedom Day, whether as a group or as an  individual.
</p>

<p>
Document Freedom Day is coordinated by the
<a href="http://fsfe.org">Free Software Foundation Europe</a>.
</p>

<h2>Contacts</h2>

<p>
Fernanda Weiden<br/>
DFD Campaign Coordinator<br/>
Vice President, Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
Email: weiden - at - fsfeurope - dot - org<br/>
Tel. +41 76 402 1866
</p>

<p>
Loimar Vianna<br/>
DFD Campaign PR Coordinator<br/>
Email: vianna - at - fsfeurope - dot - org<br/>
Tel. +353 86 234 1911
</p>

<p>
Karsten Gerloff<br/>
President, Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
Email: gerloff - at - fsfeurope - dot – org<br/>
Tel. +49 176 9690 4298
</p>

     
  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>dfd</tag>
    <tag>pr</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
