<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-05-11">
  <head>
		<title>German Government: Lack of knowledge or deliberately offending Free Software?</title>
  </head>
  <body>

  <h1>German Government: Lack of knowledge or deliberately offending Free
    Software?</h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">In the case of the Foreign Office turning away from Free
  Software, the German Government is entangling itself in contradictions. The
  reaction of the Government to an inquiry by "Bündnis 90/Grüne" has led to
  more pending questions than answers.</p>

  <p>"Many replies show that the government either doesn't understand important
  aspects of Free Software or is deliberately offending Free Software in
  general as well as Free Software companies in particular" says Matthias
  Kirschner, Germany coordinator of Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE).
  </p>

  <p>The government argues that the developments in the Foreign Office
  constitute a "turning away from the policy of exclusively using open source
  software."  At the same time, the government has confirmed that they will
  migrate to Microsoft Windows 7 and Office 2010.  </p>

  <p>"The statements that Free Software would be worse to use, would cause
  additional expenses on hardware, and that a lack of warranty would exist are
  imaginative perceptions rather than fitting into a serious reply from the
  government" said Elmar Geese, president of the "Linux-Verband".  </p>

  <p>Furthermore the response of the German Government has raised new
  questions. The government mentioned that 4.3 million Euro have been spent on
  a Free Software federal GNU/Linux distribution which apparently has never
  been finished. "We wonder what has happened to that project and what the
  money has actually been spent on" said Matthias Kirschner.</p> 
  
  <p> The FSFE and the "Linux-Verband" will work on an analysis of the reply
  together with those who are interested.  </p>

  <ul>

    <li><a href="http://www.von-notz.de/downloads/antwort-ka_bmi_quelloffene-software-aa_03-05-2.pdf">The reply of the German Federal Government (German)</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=781">Some comments in a blog entry (German)</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://etherpad.fsfe.org/1TyQlboVdF">Public plattform to comment the questions (German)</a></li>
  
  </ul>
  
  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>de</tag>
    <tag>OpenStandards</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->

