<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2011-03-30">
  <head>
    <title>City of Munich receives European Document Freedom Day Prize</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>City of Munich receives European Document Freedom Day Prize</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">At <a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document
      Freedom Day</a> on 30 March 2011, the Free Software Foundation Europe
    (FSFE) awarded the German City of Munich the Document Freedom Day
    Prize.</p>

    <p>"The regional city of Munich shows in an exemplary manner what the city
    council of a big city in Germany can achieve with free software. With the
    LiMux project, Munich is a pioneer of open standards use in both Germany
    and Europe. We hope that many will follow this modern and open attitude."
    said FSFE President Karsten Gerloff.  </p>

    <p>LiMux is currently the largest GNU/Linux project in Germany. It is
    expected that with this project, 80% of the 15,000 PC desktops of the city
    council of the capital city of Bavaria will have migrated to the free
    operating system GNU/Linux by 2013. Since 2009, all PC desktops have moved
    to a free office-communication platform (OpenOffice.org, Thunderbird,
    Firefox) and almost 6,000 computers have been using the LiMux client.  The
    regional capital city has also developed the document management system <a
      href="http://www.wollmux.org">Wollmux</a> which was published as free
    software under the European Union Public License (EUPL) and is available
    for other users for free as an open standard.  </p>

  <p>"Munich is a citizen-driven, flexible and open city. This is also
  reflected in the use of open standards and free software. With the use of
  open standards, we also strengthen the economy in Munich, by giving the many
  Munich-based IT service providers the opportunity to participate in the
  development." said City Mayor Christine Strobl.  </p>

 <p>Press materials are available on <a
   href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/DFD-2011-Berlin-Hamburg-Bilder">a separate
   page</a>.</p>

  </body>


  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>de</tag>
    <tag>DFD</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
