<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-11-28">
 <head>
<title>Web Search By The People, For The People: YaCy 1.0</title>
 </head>
 <body>
 
<h1>Web Search By The People, For The People: YaCy 1.0</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">The YaCy project is releasing version 1.0 of its peer-to-peer Free Software search engine. The software takes a radically new approach to search. YaCy does not use a central server. Instead, its search results come from a network of currently over 600 independent peers. In such a distributed network, no single entity decides what gets listed, or in which order results appear.</p>

<p>
The YaCy search engine runs on each user's own computer. Search terms are encrypted before they leave the user and the user's computer. Different from conventional search engines, YaCy is designed to protect users' privacy. A user's computer creates its individual search indexes and rankings, so that results better match what the user is looking for over time. YaCy also makes it easy to create a customised search portal with a few clicks.
</p>

<p>
"Most of what we do on the Internet involves search. It's the vital link between us and the information we're looking for. For such an essential function, we cannot rely on a few large companies, and compromise our privacy in the process," says Michael Christen, YaCy's project leader. "YaCy's free search is the vital link between free users and free information. YaCy hands control over search back to us, the users." 
</p>

<p>
Each YaCy user is part of a large search network. YaCy is already in use on websites such as sciencenet.kit.edu, yacy.geocaching-portal.com, or fsfe.org, to provide a site-wide search function that respect users' privacy. It contains a peer-to-peer network protocol to exchange search indexes with other YaCy search engines. 
</p>

<p>
"We are moving away from the idea that services need to be centrally controlled. Instead, we are realising how important it is to be independent, and to create infrastructure that doesn't have a single point of failure," says Karsten Gerloff, President of the Free Software Foundation Europe. "In the future world of distributed, peer-to-peer systems, Free Software search engines like YaCy are a vital building block."
</p>

<p>
Everyone can try out the search engine at <a href="http://search.yacy.net/">http://search.yacy.net/</a>. Users can become part of YaCy's network by installing the software on their own computers. YaCy is Free Software, so anyone can use, study, share and improve it. It is currently available for GNU/Linux, Windows and MacOS. The project is also looking for developers and other contributors.
</p>


<h2>Links:</h2>
  
<p>YaCy homepage: <a href="http://yacy.net">http://yacy.net</a></p>
  
<p>YaCy search portal: <a href="http://search.yacy.net/">http://search.yacy.net/</a></p>
  
<p>How to contribute: <a href="http://yacy.net/en/Join.html">http://yacy.net/en/Join.html</a></p>
  
<p>Free Software Foundation Europe: <a href="http://fsfe.org">http://fsfe.org</a></p>


<h2>Contacts</h2>

<p>Michael Christen<br />
YaCy Project Leader<br />
Tel. +49 177 6424235<br />
Email: mc@yacy.net</p>
 
<p>Karsten Gerloff<br />
President, Free Software Foundation Europe<br />
Tel. +49 176 9690 4298<br />
Email: gerloff@fsfeurope.org</p>
 
 </body>
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
  <tag>YaCy</tag>
  <tag>SearchEngines</tag>
 </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
