<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-06-22">
  <version>1</version>

 <head>
		<title>FSFE on AVM vs Cybits: A small computer is still a computer</title>
 </head>
 <body>
 
  <h1>FSFE on AVM vs Cybits: A small computer is still a computer</h1>

  <p>Yesterday in Berlin a court hearing took place
  in a case that could set a crucial precedent for the embedded industry
  (see also <a href="/news/2011/news-20110620-01.en.html">"AVM violating license of the Linux
   kernel"</a>). In the lawsuit between AVM and Cybits, AVM maintained
  that others should not be allowed to modify Free Software on computers
  bought from AVM, such as the widely used Fritz!Box. At the heart of the
  debate is the Linux kernel, distributed under the GNU GPL which
  guarantees exactly this freedom to users.  Free Software Foundation
  Europe (FSFE) and gpl-violations.org today published a
  <a href="/activities/avm-gpl-violation/avm-gpl-violation.html#oh-20110621"><strong>detailed report</strong></a>
  about the hearing.</p>
  
  <p>"Users have the right to decide for themselves which software they want
  to run on their computers. If AVM, or any other company, does not want
  to adhere to the GNU General Public License, they should not use
  GPL-licensed software," says Matthias Kirschner, FSFE's Germany
  coordinator.</p>
  
  <p>"AVM wants to keep and extend its monopolistic power over those devices,
  even after they have been sold. Not only does this conflict with the GNU
  GPL license of the Linux kernel, it is also anti-competitive,"
  <a href="http://laforge.gnumonks.org/weblog/2011/06/21/#20110621-avm_cybits_court_hearing"><strong>says Harald Welte</strong></a>,
  Linux kernel contributor and founder of gpl-violations.org project.</p>

  <p>The court made no decision during yesterday's hearing. The participants
  may file further written pleadings. The court may then either rule
  directly, or begin hearing evidence. FSFE and gpl-violations.org will
  continue to monitor the case and defend the freedom of software users.</p>
 
 </body>
 <tags>
  <tag key="front-page"/>
  <tag key="de"/>
  <tag key="gpl"/>
  <tag key="avm"/>
  <tag key="compliance"/>
  <tag key="legal"/>
  <tag key="de"/>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
