<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-04-20">
  <head>
	  <title>Mission is possible: FSFE needs your help to make a progress in the PDFreaders campaign!</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  <h1>Mission is possible: FSFE needs your help to make a progress in the PDFreaders campaign!</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">FSFE calls Free Software supporters to participate in the
ongoing <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">PDFreaders campaign</a>
and remind public institutions to remove advertisements of proprietary PDF
readers from their websites.</p>

<p>The PDFreaders campaign was launched in November 2010 to end advertisements
for proprietary software on public institutions' websites. Thanks to efforts of
our Fellows and other Free Software activists, the first phase of the campaign
was successfully implemented: we discovered and <a
href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">contacted</a> more than 2000 public
bodies across Europe and overseas.</p>

<p>To date, 17 percent of the contacted public institutions already replied and
removed the non-free PDF reader advertisements from their websites. The current
progress of the campaign can be seen on <a
href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">FSFE's buglist</a>. However, as many
of the contacted institutions have not replied yet, we want to remind them
about the letter we have sent and ask for a reply.  </p>

<p>To take part, follow the <a
href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/follow-up.html">actions from our follow-up
guide</a>. In short this is:</p>

<ul>

<li>have a look <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">at
organisations</a> in your country which appear as not having answered yet,</li>

<li>contact them and remind of the FSFE letter on inadmissibility of
advertising of proprietary software by public institutions,</li>

<li>ask them to remove the advertising of proprietary software from their
websites as it is violating the principle of neutrality of public bodies.</li>

</ul>

<p>If you discover a public institution website that advertises non-free
software and is not on our list, you are encouraged to contact them on your own
using a modifed version of <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html"> our
letter</a>. If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to
contact us at pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org.</p>

  </body>
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>PDFreaders</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
