<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2011-02-01">
	<head>
		<title>New Country Coordinators for Italy and the UK</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>New Country Coordinators for Italy and the UK</h1>

		<p newsteaser="yes"><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/poderi/">Giacomo Poderi</a> and 
		<a href="/about/tuke/tuke.en.html">Sam Tuke</a> are the new Country Coordinators for
		the Italian and British Country Teams respectively.</p>

		<p>Giacomo Poderi, team member since 2006 and former Deputy Coordinator, is the new Coordinator of 
		the Italian Country Team. The priority goals for the Italian team, under Giacomo's coordination, will be to create
		links between FSFE's work at the European level with the work done by the many groups, associations
		and activists in Italy in favour of Free Software. To promote participation, increase visibility 
		and networking with other Italian activists, the team will use collaborative projects promoted by
		FSFE such as the <a href="http://www.fsfe.org/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">PDFreaders campaign</a>
		and the forthcoming <a href="http://documentfreedom.org/2011/">DFD '11</a>. At the same time, the team will
		provide its help to the projects promoted by the groups of the Italian Free Software movement.</p>

		<p>Sam Tuke now coordinates the newly created British country team. Sam became a volunteer editor,
		designer and developer with FSFE in 2009, and recently moved to Manchester after six months working in FSFE's Berlin 
		office. He will work with existing advocacy groups to raise the profile of Free Software in British society, 
		education, and politics, and establish an enduring relationship between FSFE and the United Kingdom.</p>

		<p>FSFE thanks all coordinators for
		their work, and wishes the best of luck to Giacomo and Sam in their new roles!</p>

		<p>You can contact these country teams by writing an e-mail to <a href="mailto:italy@fsfeurope.org">italy@fsfeurope.org</a>
		or <a href="mailto:uk@fsfeurope.org">uk@fsfeurope.org</a>.</p>
	</body>
	<tags>
		<tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag>it</tag>
		<tag>gb</tag>
		<tag>giacomo-poderi</tag>
		<tag>sam-tuke</tag>
		<tag>workforce</tag>
	</tags>
	<timestamp></timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
