<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2011-03-10">
  <head>
    <title>A decade of Freedom: FSFE turns 10</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    
    <h1>A decade of Freedom: FSFE turns 10</h1>
    
    <p newsteaser="yes">
      Free Software Foundation Europe is ten years old this March. FSFE was
      founded <a href="http://replay.waybackmachine.org/20010331035357/http://fsfeurope.org/">in 2001</a>
      as "an organization dedicated to Free Software activities in Europe" and
      "the <a href="http://fsfe.org/about/fsfnetwork.html">official sister
      organization</a> of the Free Software Foundation in the United States"
      in Europe.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Today, FSFE <a href="http://fsfe.org/work.html">works</a>
      across Europe and around the world. The organisation has grown into
      a focal point for the European Free Software community and an
      important voice for Free Software in politics.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      "As we look back on a decade of hard work, we would like to thank
      everyone who has helped to make FSFE what it is today. We have come
      a long way, and we're immensely proud of what we have achieved
      together," says FSFE's president Karsten Gerloff.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      "Yet there is so much more work to do. If you love Free Software, we
      invite you to <a href="http://fsfe.org/donate/donate.html">support</a>
      FSFE, <a href="  http://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.html">help</a>
      us with your time and skills, or join the
      <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellowship</a>!"
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Throughout the month of March, we will highlight important events in
      FSFE's history. Follow us on <a href="http://identi.ca/fsfe">identi.ca</a>,
      catch our <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/news.en.rss">RSS news feed</a>
      and subscribe to our monthly
      <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/newsletter.html">newsletter</a>
      to stay informed.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Please read our <a href="/about/history/birthday10.html">excerpt of FSFE's history</a>.
    </p>
    
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date: 2009-12-27 02:32:13 +0100 (Sun, 27 Dec 2009) $Author: rolf_camps $</timestamp>
  
  <tags>
    <tag>front-page</tag>
    <tag>history</tag>
    <tag>birthday</tag>
  </tags>
  
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
