<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - News - NLnet continues to support FSFE's Freedom Task Force</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>NLnet continues to support FSFE's Freedom Task Force</h1>

<p>FSFE's Freedom Task Force was launched in November 2006 to help support
individuals, projects and businesses with Free Software licensing. The
initial phase of the FTF was possible thanks to support by the
Netherlands based philanthropic organisation NLnet foundation. NLnet's
support allowed the FTF to provide training, consultancy and to work in
partnership with gpl-violations.org to resolve licence issues in the
European area.  The FTF also formed networks of technical and legal
experts to foster cooperation between lawyers, projects and businesses
with licensing concerns.  Now, after just over twelve months of
continual growth, NLnet is providing a second round of financial support
to this innovative legal project.</p>

<p>"The next twelve months are going to be pretty exciting for the FTF and
for Free Software in general," says Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator.  "The 
European anti-trust case against Microsoft was recently completed, the 
amount of Free Software savvy lawyers is increasing and Free Software 
adoption is rapidly rising.  Free Software is no longer an alternative. 
It's mainstream."  The FTF will play a part in ensuring that this 
mainstream technology is as simple to use and distribute as possible. We 
will continue to produce knowledge, to train people, to connect people and 
to resolve issues that occur. Thanks to NLnet I believe the FTF will be in
a position to help lead European Free Software licensing best practice."</p>

<p>"We consider the user-friendly legal framework behind the development of
Free Software to be one of the core assets, and a strong driver of
constant innovation," states Michiel Leenaars, strategy manager at
NLnet. "But as with any fine print it takes some work to understand the
opportunities. The Freedom Task Force is creating awareness and building
a network of expertise across Europe".</p>

<p>Today the FTF's legal and technical networks cover sixteen European
countries, have over seventy members and include contacts from the USA,
Canada, Australia, South Korea and Taiwan.  The FTF delivers training
courses in Switzerland in cooperation with Digicomp, in Sweden with
Internet Academy and in The Netherlands with ATComputing.  We have 
identified an area of the Free Software community that needed further 
development and we are determined to ensure that Europe has excellent 
licensing knowledge available to the widest possible audience," says 
Shane Coughlan.  "I'm confident that the FTF will continue to deliver 
high quality assistance to both non-commercial and commercial 
stakeholders."</p>

<p>With NLnet's support, the FTF will continue to expand the European Legal 
and Technical Networks to cover the entire EU and to help individuals, 
projects and businesses understand Free Software licensing. The FTF's 
current training courses will be expanded and delivered in Germany, Italy 
and the UK.</p>

<p>"This is only the beginning," concludes Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator.</p>



<p>The Freedom Task Force can be found at <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/"
title="Freedom Task Force">http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/</a><br />
The Freedom Task Force can be emailed at ftf at fsfeurope.org</p>

    <p>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</p>

    <p class="aboutfsfe">The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
   non-governmental organisation active in many European countries and
   involved in many global activities. Access to software determines
   participation in a digital society. To secure equal participation in the
   information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free Software
   Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the furthering of
   Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study, modify and copy.
   Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues, securing Free
   Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
   supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>Contact:</p>
    <address>
     You can reach the FSFE switchboard from:<br />
         Belgium:     +32 2 747 03 57 ext 408<br />
    Germany:     +49 700 373 38 76 73 ext 408<br />
    Sweden:      +46 31 7802160 ext 408<br />
    Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66 ext 408<br />
    UK:          +44 29 200 08 17 7 ext 408 
    </address>
    <address>
    Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator,  FSFE extension: 408
    </address>
    <address>
     Joachim Jakobs, Media Relations,  FSFE extension: 404<br />
                                             mobile: +49-179-6919565
    </address>
    <address>
    Further information: <a href="http://fsfeurope.org">http://fsfeurope.org</a>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
