<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
    <title>FSF France - Electronic voting and Free Software</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	English
	]
      </center>

      <blockquote>

	<center><h3>Electronic voting and Free Software</h3></center>

	<p /> Although the subject of electronic voting is frequently
	raised in various countries, both for votes on a nation wide
	scale and votes in companies, it is rarely associated with <a
	hre="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">Free
	Software</a>.

	<p /> In 2001 people from Tiscali company in France attempted
	to organize an electronic vote. The project was turned down by
	the syndicates and finally did not occur. What is interesting
	in this case is that it gave FSF France the opportunity to
	discuss with people involved in this project and raise the
	issue of Free Software in electronic voting.

	<p /> The whole process of electronic voting is quite complex
	and years will pass before they are all solved so that it can
	become legal.  However, there is one point for which there can
	be no debate. In order for the voting process to be accepted
	it is absolutely essential that all the software used during
	the operation is absolutely transparent. There cannot be one
	piece of software for which a relation of trust has to be
	established between the people who vote and the author of the
	software. The whole point of the voting process is to never
	include any component where someone (individual or
	organization) has to be trusted not to cheat.

	<p /> It is surprising to see that companies sell non-free
	software for electronic voting. All non-free software is
	secret by nature and there is virtually no way to be sure that
	the software does not include a trick to change the results of
	the vote. At some point people using the non-free software for
	voting will have to assume that the author of the software was
	honest and this is precisely what needs to be avoided. Only
	Free Software can ensure total transparency. Because it can be
	copied by anyone, because people world wide are able to study
	the source code, because they can spot bugs and fix them,
	because they can hand it to someone else. Note that the mere
	fact that a software is Free Software is not enough, it is
	only a pre-condition. 

	<p /> <a href="mailto:mzuber@cfdt-ftilac.fr">Martine ZUBER</a>
	and others from the CFDT syndicate in France studied the
	question and are actively working to make electronic voting a
	reality. Being in contact with the Free Software movement
	will allow the CFDT to promote the idea that electronic voting
	must include Free Software. Feel free to get in touch with her
	to get more information, it would be most interesting to
	coordinate this effort world wide. Martine suggested me a
	first reading about electronic voting in France (<a
	href="http://www.bol.fr/cec/cstage?ecaction=bolprditmview&amp;PrdId=1001003000040580">Le
	droit du travail à l'épreuve des NTIC</a>). It contains a
	chapter on electronic voting with references to legal actions
	(TGI Paris, 21 December 2000, Cour de Cassation February
	2000). The chapter does not mention Free Software but instead
	says that electronic voting should ensure <i>the perfect
	reliability of the technical means</i>.

	<p /> Our position regarding electronic voting does not go beyond
	the fact that 100% of the software involved must be Free Software.
	At present we can't even say if electronic voting is desirable or
	not. We do not promote electronic voting and we do not say that 
	it should never be done. Our uncertainty in this matter mostly
	lies in the fact that we know too little and that most issues
	are to be explored in depth before we can have an opinion. Our
	contribution to this exploration process is to promote the idea
	that only Free Software can achieve transparency.
	
	<p /> If you would like to add your contribution to this text,
	fix it or just declare yourself interested now and forever in
	this subject (:-) feel free modify this document and add new
	ones. If you don't have access to modify those pages, mail to <a
	href="mailto:fsfe-france@gnu.org">FSF France</a>.
	
	<p />
	
	<i><a href="mailto:LoicDachary@fsfeurope.org">Loïc Dachary</a></i>
	<p/>
<hr/>
	<p>I'd like to add a little contribution...</p>

        <p>One of the sites of interest in this field is <a
        href="http://www.free-project.org/">GNU.FREE</a>, the
        e-democracy project.</p>

        <p>I didn't read the whole web site nor test the software
        myself, but interested people might give more details about
        its interest. Waiting for more contributions ;)</p>
	
	<i><a href="mailto:oberger@april.org">Olivier Berger</a></i>
	<p/>
<hr/>
	<p>Another interesting pointer reported by <a
        href="http://www.debian.org/News/">Debian Weekly News</a> :</p>

        <p><a href="http://www.debian.org/News/2001/20010727">Debian
        GNU/Linux to be used in Election Software</a>.</p>

        <p>The software developped around a Debian system is
        apparently <a href="http://evacs.samba.org/">Electronic Voting
        And Counting System (EVACS)</a>.</p>
	
	<i><a href="mailto:oberger@april.org">Olivier Berger</a></i>

<hr/>
	<p>Another pointer on this subject, in french :</p>

        <p><a href="http://www.illico.org/public/projets/urne/">Une
        procédure de vote basée sur l'utilisation d'une urne
        électronique</a> by <a
        href="http://www.illico.org/">ILLICO</a>'s member Philippe
        Allart. Note : I didn't take time to read it
        myself, but it seems to be interesting.</p>
	
	<i><a href="mailto:oberger@april.org">Olivier Berger</a></i>

	<p><a href="http://www.counterpane.com/crypto-gram-0012.html">Crypto-Gram</a>:</p>

        <p>It says: <i>In the wake of last November's election, pundits have
        called for more accurate voting and vote counting. To most
        people, this obviously means more technology. But before
        jumping to conclusions, let's look at the security and
        reliability issues surrounding voting technology</i>.
	</p>
	
	<i><a href="mailto:wk@gnupg.org">Werner Koch</a></i> <hr/>
<p/>
      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
</html>
