<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE -  News - EU antitrust case over: Samba receives interoperability information</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>EU antitrust case over: Samba receives interoperability information</h1>
    <p class="background">
      In 2004 the European Commission found Microsoft guilty of monopoly
      abuse in the IT marketplace and demanded that complete
      interoperability information be made available to competitors.
      Microsoft objected to this decision and was overruled in September
      2007 by the European Court of First Instance (CFI). The CFI found
      Microsoft guilty of deliberate obstruction of interoperability and
      upheld the obligation for Microsoft to share its protocol
      information.
    </p>
    <p class="background">
	    The <a href="http://www.samba.org">Samba</a> Team has decided to make use of Micrsoft's obligation
      under the European judgements. Through the Protocol Freedom
      Information Foundation (PFIF), network interoperability information
      has been requested and a one-time access fee of 10.000 EUR is being
      paid to give Samba team full access to important specifications.
    </p>
    <p>
      "This case is over and interoperability won. The European Court made
      clear that interoperability information should not be kept secret and
      the agreement shows that Microsoft saw no way to continue its
      obstruction of interoperability in this area. This establishes a
      standard which everyone will have to meet from now on," summarizes
      Georg Greve, president of the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE).
    </p>
    <p>
      Jonas Öberg, FSFE's vice president, continues: "Other winners are all
      users of Workgroup productivity applications: Samba will now gain full
      access to all the information necessary for full interoperability with
      today's and tomorrow's Microsoft Workgroup Server products. All users
      stand to benefit from this, even those using Microsoft's products,
      because increased competition is likely to put pressure on Microsoft's
      pricing and decrease Microsoft's margins."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Under the current situation, thanks to the improvements that we have
      been able to obtain, the agreement is the best solution possible. It
      does not solve all the open issues we have with Microsoft, it just
      partially remedies an unfair and illegal situation. It is not a
      settlement, it is compliance to the remedies imposed by the Commission
      and upheld by the EC Courts. And at least it is now fully compatible
      with Free Software licensing," comments Carlo Piana, legal counsel of
      the FSFE.
    </p>
    <p>
      Piana continues: "We have been able once for all to receive a list of
      the patents that Microsoft claims to be reading on the specifications.
      Incredibly we have never been exactly told which those patents
      were. This should be helpful to stop FUD against Samba, and we hope
      the same will happen with other Free Software projects. It is standard
      practice: if you have an issue with somebody, you should tell what
      this issue is, or shut up completely."
    </p>
    <p>
      "The European Commission has been criticised harshly for its agreement
      with Microsoft, in particular its failure to declare potentially
      relevant patents of Microsoft invalid," Jonas Öberg continues: "The
      system is broken and needs fixing, but it is not for civil
      administration to declare specific patents valid or invalid. We need
      informed, transparent and democratic dialog on this issue."
    </p>
    <p>
      Georg Greve adds: "The European Commission got further than any other
      antitrust authority in the world and was more successful. They deserve
      our gratitude and support for having gone 80% of the way. All the same
      one could have hoped for the courage to also mention the problems
      caused by software patents for interoperability and thus competition,
      including a clear request to the proper political places to address
      this issue."
    </p>
    <p>
      "We should also not forget that this is only about one area in which
      Microsoft is showing the same behaviour. There are outstanding
      antitrust complaints from both the European Committee for
      Interoperable Systems (ECIS) and Opera about different abusive
      behaviours in the office, Internet and web browser area," Greve
      adds. "If the same methods are abusive in one area, they should also
      be abusive in another. So if the European Commission wants to follow
      the positive example it set since 1998, it should not fail to also
      investigate the other complaints."
    </p>
    <p>
      "The overall summary is positive. When FSFE set out in 2001 to support
      the European Commission in its antitrust investigation against
      Microsoft, our goal was to make this information available to Free
      Software. Working jointly with the Samba team since 2003, we managed
      to do just that."
    </p>
    <p>
      Jonas Öberg concludes: "Software patents were a problem then and they
      remain a problem today. We will need to solve this problem
      politically, and FSFE intends to keep working on this. Meanwhile I'd
      like to thank all the volunteers and employees of FSFE and Samba who
      worked on this amazing success for Free Software with little or no
      support while others were allowing themselves to be solicited out of
      the case. Our thanks also goes to everyone who supported our work over
      the years and helped make this success possible."
    </p>

    <p>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</p>

    <p class="aboutfsfe">The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
    non-governmental organisation active in many European countries and
    involved in many global activities. Access to software determines
    participation in a digital society. To secure equal participation in
    the information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free
    Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the
    furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study,
    modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these
    issues, securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving
    people Freedom by supporting development of Free Software are central
    issues of the FSFE.<br  />
    <br />
    http://fsfeurope.org</p>


    <p>Contact:</p>
    <address>
      Georg Greve		+41-76-5611866<br />
      Jonas Öberg		+46-733-423962<br />
      Carlo Piana		+39-347-8835209<br />
      Shane Coughlan	+41-79-2633406<br />
      Ciaran O'Riordan	+32-477-364419<br />
    </address>

    <p>You can reach the FSFE switchboard from:</p>
    <address>
      Belgium:     +32 2 747 03 57<br />
      Germany:     +49 700 373 38 76 73<br />
      Sweden:      +46 31 7802160<br />
      Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66<br />
      UK:          +44 29 200 08 17 7<br />
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
