<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Imprint - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <p id="category"><a href="/about/about.html">About</a></p>
    
    <h1>Imprint</h1>


        <p> Free Software Foundation Europe e.V. (FSFE)<br />
 Address: Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Deutschland<br />
 Email: <a href="/contact/contact.html">contact@fsfe.org</a><br />

 President: Matthias Kirschner<br />
 Seat: Hamburg.<br />
 Eingetragen beim Registergericht AG Hamburg, VR 17030<br />
 UstID: DE234323337<br />
 Founding year: 2001<br />
 </p>

 <p>
 EU transparency register ID: <a href="http://ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/public/consultation/displaylobbyist.do?id=33882407107-76">33882407107-76</a>
 </p>
 
 <h2>Privacy policy</h2>
<p>The fsfe.org web site is run by the FSFE e.V. When this policy refers to “we”, this means the FSFE.</p>


 <p>The tl;dr version: We strictly limit the processing of your personal information, and in general try to process as little data as possible to fulfill our mission. We won't sell your data to any third party and the only third party that may gets your data are: people working for us (our tax accountant for example); recipient of open letters; EU or German authorities whenever the law compel us to give them information (for example we have to give insight on our donations to the German tax authorities).</p>

 <h3>Why do we collect data? Who can access it and how long we keep them?</h3>

 <p>In an objective of transparency, we provide at the following address the list of all our services and processing: <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/DataProcessingTransparency">https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/DataProcessingTransparency</a></p>

 <h3>What are your rights?</h3>

 <p>You have the right to:</p>
  <ul>
   <li>ask us whether we process your data, and, where that is the case, you can ask to access them;</li>
   <li>request rectification of inaccurate personal data;</li> 
   <li>obtain erasure of personal data in many cases (like if they are no longer necessary, or if you withdrawn your consent and there is no other legal ground to keep them);</li>
   <li>have incomplete personal data completed;</li>
   <li>request the restriction of processing of your personal data;</li>
   <li>object to processing as well as the right to data portability;</li>
   <li>lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;</li>
  </ul>

 <h3>Whom to contact</h3>

  <p>If you have questions about our use of your data, would like to request a copy of all information we have stored about you, please contact privacy@fsfe.org or directly the FSFE's president, whom you can contact at president@fsfe.org. </p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
