<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Legal Structure</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<h1>Legal Structure</h1>
</center>

<h2>Vision</h2>

<p>The vision of the FSF Europe is largely influenced by the vision of
a united Europe. We wanted to form <b>one</b> organisation in which we
would work together as Europeans across cultural, language, social and
country barriers.</p>

<p>This vision of Europe was (and is not) limited to the European
Union, but encompasses all countries and people who feel part of the
European culture and spirit.</p>

<p>By standing together we are able to not only help each other
in critical situations, but also gain inspiration from discussion.</p>

<p>But the European Union exists and it already is governing many
countries in areas vital to Free Software and freedom in a digital
society.</p>

<p>Together we are able to address all these areas simultaneously with
one voice.</p>

<h2>Implementation</h2>

<p>Unfortunately, there is no legal basis to implement this vision 1:1
into a legal structure, so we needed to find a way to make the vision
come through despite these legal shortcomings.</p>

<p>The "legal hack" that we came up with is a modular structure that
allows us to expand it step by step into every country that feels part
of Europe whether it is part of the European Union or not.</p>

<h3>The Hub </h3>

<p>The Hub is the central legal body, the core of the FSF Europe. All
<a href="/about/members.html">members</a> of the FSF Europe have to be
members of the Hub by constitution.</p>

<p>Within the Hub the members from all European countries reach the
European decisions together and agree on the course, policy and
strategic issues of the FSF Europe.</p>

<p>These are then carried into the local legal bodies, the chapters
through the constitution and the people.</p>

<p>The Hub is by happenstance a charitable association ("e.V.")
registered in Germany with the following constitution:
<ul>
<li>English: <a href="/about/legal/Constitution.en.pdf">PDF (56k)</a> <a href="/about/legal/constitution.en.html">HTML</a></li>
<li>German: <a href="/about/legal/Constitution.de.pdf">PDF (68k)</a> <a href="/about/legal/constitution.de.html">HTML</a></li>
</ul>
</p>

<h3>The Chapters</h3>

<p>The chapters are the local legal bodies of the FSF Europe, formed
by the members of the FSF Europe from that country.</p>

<p>They are bound to the FSF Europe through their constitutions, but
with the freedom and autonomy to address the local issues in the way
appropriate for the cultural and social identity in those
countries.</p>

<p>The constitution for these chapters is usually found by modifying
a "template constitution" in order to fit in with the legal system of
that country, aiming for charitable status whenever possible.</p>

<p>That template constitution is also available:
<ul>
<li>English: <a href="/about/legal/Constitution-CTmpl.en.pdf">PDF (64k)</a><a href="/about/legal/template-constitution.en.html">HTML</a></li>
<li>German: <a href="/about/legal/Constitution-CTmpl.de.pdf">PDF (66k)</a><a href="/about/legal/template-constitution.de.html">HTML</a></li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>Fully-established Chapters currently exist in
<ul>
<li><a href="/about/legal/de/de.html">Germany</a> (<a href="de/constitution.html">Constitution</a>)</li>
<li><a href="/about/legal/it/it.html">Italy</a> (<a href="it/constitution.html">Constitution</a>)</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>Countries currently represented with members in the FSF Europe:
Austria, Germany, Italy, Sweden</p>

<!-- End page content -->

  </body>
  <timestamp>
    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
