<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>About the FTF</h2>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <b><a href="ftf.html">Services</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="network.html">Network</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="documentation.html">Documentation</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="community.html">Community</a></b> ] 
[ <b>About</b> ] 
[ <b><a href="contact.html">Contact</a></b> ]
</p>
</div>

<p>The Freedom Task Force provides licence support services to individuals, projects and businesses involved with Free Software.  We do this through the provision of services that include consultancy and education.  We are a project managed by Free Software Foundation Europe.
</p>

<h3>Our People</h3>

<p>The Freedom Task Force has a <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/about/coughlan/coughlan.html">
full-time coordinator</a>.  We operate a network of ten highly respected legal experts, five of whom are practicing lawyers.  We also operate a network of eight technical experts and a <a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/ftf-discussion">mailing list for volunteers</a> interested in ensuring that everyone benefits from Free Software equally.  When necessary we form ad-hoc teams of specialists to deal with specific issues.  The FTF is cooperating with law firms with expertise in Free Software licensing questions in several European countries.  The FTF recommends qualified legal experts by request.</p>

<h3>Our Methods</h3>

<p>We believe in positive engagement and constructive dialogue. We seek to resolve issues amicably and for the long-term benefit of Free Software.</p>

<h3>Our Goals</h3>

<ul>
 <li>To collect, analyse and share legal knowledge about Free Software.</li>
 <li>To safeguard the interests of Free Software projects and businesses.</li>
 <li>To bring together experts in Free Software legal issues.</li>
 <li>To work with other groups and help them achieve similar goals.</li>
</ul>

<p>You can learn more about the FTF by visiting our <a href="faq-general.html">FAQ</a>.</p>

<p>You can also listen to a <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/projects/ftf/fellowship-meeting-ftf-coughlan.vorbis.ogg.torrent">talk about the FTF</a> (ogg format, bittorrent).</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
