<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>ELN 2010 Workshop - FTF - FSFE</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/projects/ftf/">FTF</a></p>
        <h1>Activities</h1>

    <localmenu/>

    <p>
      The European Legal Network (ELN) Workshop is held yearly to
      bring together lawyers, counsel and Free Software project leaders
      to spread knowledge about issues at the forefront of project
      governance: legal, licensing, trademarks, patents and management
      are discussed. The programme for the workshop is provided by
      members of the ELN.
    </p>

    <h2>Programme</h2>

    <p>
      The ELN 2010 Workshop will be held on April 8 and 9, 2010.
    </p>

    <table>
      <tr><td colspan='2' align='center' style='color: white; background: black;'>April 8th</td></tr>

      <tr><td align='right'>9:00</td><td>Coffee</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>9:15</td><td>Welcome by Karsten Gerloff, FSFE</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>9:20</td><td>Keynote by Glyn Moody</td></tr>

     <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track One - Governance</b></td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>10:00</td><td>Exploring governance</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>10:40</td><td>Corporate evolution - What happens when real companies integrate Free Software</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>11:10</td><td>Coffee break</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>11:30</td><td>Managing code in the supply chain</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>12:10</td><td>Copyright and Contribution panel</td></tr>

     <tr><td align='right'>13:00</td><td>Lunch</td></tr>

     <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Two - Real-world Developments</b></td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>14:00</td><td>Case Overview Europe</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>14:45</td><td>Case Overview North America</td></tr>

       <tr><td align='right'>15:30</td><td>Coffee break</td></tr>

     <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Three - Linking</b></td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>15:50</td><td>The results of the linking SIG</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>16:20</td><td>Panel session on linking</td></tr>


     <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Four - Leveraging Brands</b></td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>17:05</td><td>Trademarks and other ways to make money with stuff you give away</td></tr>

     <tr><td align='right'>17:35</td><td>Close of day</td></tr>
     <tr><td align='right'>19:00</td><td>Evening meal</td></tr>




     <tr><td colspan='2' align='center' style='color: white; background: black;'>April 9th</td></tr>
     <tr><td align='right'>9:00</td><td>Coffee</td></tr>

     <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Five - GPLv3 and Compliance</b></td></tr>

       <tr><td align='right'>9:20</td><td>Corporate Free Software License Policy</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>10:05</td><td>Obligations Regarding Source Code</td></tr>
       <tr><td align='right'>10:50</td><td>Coffee break</td></tr>

    <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Six - Containing Risk, Maximizing Benefit</b></td></tr>

      <tr><td align='right'>11:10</td><td>Panel on Contractual terms, warranties, indemnities and liability; exploring the risk grid</td></tr>


    <tr><td align='right'>12:30</td><td>Lunch break</td></tr>

    <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Seven - Exploring how Patents and Software Innovation Intersect</b></td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>13:30</td><td>Panel on Patents</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>14:40</td><td>Coffee</td></tr>

    <tr><td colspan='2' align='center'><b>Track Eight - Looking Forward</b></td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>15:00</td><td>All these new devices, Free Software everywhere</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>15:40</td><td>Into the cloud</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>16:10</td><td>Digital Privacy and Freedom</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>16:40</td><td>Coffee</td></tr>
      <tr><td align='right'>17:00</td><td>Closing keynote</td></tr>
    <tr><td align='right'>17:40</td><td>Conference end</td></tr>

</table>


    <h2>Venue</h2>

    <p>The ELN 2010 Workshop will be held at the <a href="http://www.lloydhotel.com/">Lloyd Hotel</a> near the heart of Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
    Rooms can be booked there or at the nearby NH Barbizon Palace or NH Tropen.
    </p>


    <h2>Registration</h2>

    <p>
      The workshop is open to members of the ELN; other attendees
       please inquire. Space is limited, so register early.
    </p>

    <p>Registrations may be done by email to <a href="mailto:eln-registration@fsfeurope.org">Hugo Roy</a> (<a href="mailto:eln-registration@fsfeurope.org">eln-registration@fsfeurope.org</a>).
    </p>


    <h2>Sponsors</h2>

    <p>The ELN 2010 Workshop is made possible by the kind support
    of our sponsors.</p>

    <table width='100%' cellspacing='5'>
      <tr>
        <td width='50%' align='center'>Open Invention Network</td>
        <td width='50%' align='center'>Canonical</td>
      </tr>
      
      <tr>
        <td width='100%' colspan="2" align='center'>HP (Hewlett-Packard)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>

    
    <h2>Business ticket</h2>

<p>
As before, there is no fee to participate in this event, and costs are
kindly underwritten by sponsors. This is very much appreciated. 
</p>

<p>
We would like to offer attendees a way to
support the facilitation of the Legal Network throughout the coming
year while attending the workshop.  To accomplish this we will
introduce an optional "business ticket" priced at 300 Euro. Invoices for accounting purposes will be provided.  All revenue
generated by this ticket will contribute towards the time and other
resources consumed in running network communications, projects and
events throughout 2010.
</p>

<p>If you have questions about the business ticket, please
contact <a href="mailto:eln-registration@fsfeurope.org">Hugo Roy</a>
or <a href="mailto:groot@fsfeurope.org">Adriaan de Groot</a>.
</p>

  </body>
</html>

