<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h1>FTF: Activities</h1>

    <localmenu id="3">Activities</localmenu>

<p>The FTF builds and supports legal infrastructure for Free Software in Europe.</p>

<h3>European Legal Network</h3>

<p>The <a href="network.html">European Legal Network</a> is a professional network of legal experts facilitated by the FTF. Members share information, network across countries and cooperate to increase the availability of information related to best practice in Free Software licensing.  The network has over 150 members across 27 countries and four continents.</p>

<h3>Special Interest Groups</h3>

<p>The special interest groups are an outcome of the European Legal Network discussions and usually consist solely of Network members. These are small focus groups tasked with discussing best practice in the Free Software legal sphere, reducing misunderstandings, misuse of licences and lack of available guidance. The FTF currently facilitates special interest groups on business processes and the supply chain, software patents and the embedded industry.  If you wish to participate, please consider joining the <a href="network.html">European Legal Network</a>.</p>

<h3>Conferences</h3>

<p>The European Legal and Licensing Workshop was first held in April 2008 and marked the first time European Legal Network delegates came together to discuss the impact and future of Free software licences.  The event was was a resounding success and will be repeated annual.  The European Legal and Licensing Workshop 2009 is scheduled to take place in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, during April.  More information will be posted on this event shortly.</p>

<h3>Documentation</h3>

<p>The FTF releases documentation to assist people use Free Software.</p>
<ul>
	<li><a href="faq-what-is-licensing.html">What is software licensing?</a></li>
	<li><a href="reporting-fixing-violations.html">Reporting and fixing violations</a></li>
	<li><a href="useful-tips-for-users.html">Useful tips for users of GNU GPL version 2 software</a></li>
	<li><a href="useful-tips-for-vendors.html">Useful tips for vendors of GNU GPL version 2 software</a></li>
	<li><a href="building-legal-infrastructure.html">Building legal infrastructure for your Free Software project</a></li>
	<li><a href="/projects/gplv3/">Learn more about the GNU GPL version 3</a></li>
</ul>
<p>You can find more information on Free Software licensing at our <a href="referencematerial.html">reference material</a> page.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
