<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>Compliance Checklist</h2>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <b><a href="ftf.html">Services</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="documentation.html">Documentation</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="community.html">Community</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="about.html">About</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="contact.html">Contact</a></b> ]
</p>
</div>

<p>This compliance checklist can help you locate some common issues in software that contains code under the GNU GPL licence.</p>

<p>This is not legal advice. If you have doubts consult a legal advisor.</p>

<h3>GNU GPL User Checklist</h3>

<b>Basic guidelines:</b>

<ol>
<li>Make sure a copy of the GNU GPL licence comes with the software.</li>
<li>Make sure a copy of the source code comes with the software or there is a written offer to provide the source code on a physical media like a CD ROM for no more than the cost of production and shipping.</li>
<li>Make sure the software is not copyrighted solely by the distributor if the software contains code created by others.</li>
</ol>

<b>Detailed guidelines:</b>

<ol>
<li>Make sure the correct version of the source code is available. The source code has to be exactly the same version as the executable (object) code provided.</li>
<li>Make sure the source code includes the source for any derivative works of the GNU GPL code, not just of the third-party GNU GPL components themselves.</li>
<li>Make sure the source code includes the scripts used to control compilation and installation.</li>
<li>If the toolchain is released and contains tools under the GNU GPL (like the GCC compiler), make sure the source code for those tools is also available.</li>
<li>If the software is distributed through the Internet the licence text and source code should be on the same server as the binary download unless it is a non-commercial distribution.</li>
</ol>

<p>Copyright (c) 2004-2006 The gpl-violations.org webmaster<br />
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 FSFE e.V.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
