<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Consulting - FTF - FSFE</title>
    <link ref="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>

  <p id="introduction">
    The Freedom Task Force offers consulting services for business and
    for Free Software projects on various topics. We're happy to
    offer some gratis advice beforehand, though.
  </p>


  <h3><a name="licenseselection"></a>Selecting a License</h3>

  <p>
    License selection for a Free Software project or product
    can be one of the most important decisions you make:
    the license influences how the community grows, how
    contributions can be received and which business models
    make sense around the software.
  </p>

  <p>
    The FTF will advise you on license selection strategies
    and examine the way you want to work in order to pick
    the most applicable license for your software.
  </p>

  <p>
    Typical license consulting will take about four hours,
    depending on the complexity of the project and businesses
    around it. Regular <a href="#rates">consulting rates</a> apply.
    On-site consulting is available as well.
  </p>

  <h3><a name="rates"></a>Consulting Rates</h3>

  <p>
    Consulting by members of the FTF is at a rate of 150 EUR per hour
    from any of our offices, or 100 EUR per hour for companies with
    Fellows of the FSFE as employees. 
  </p>

  <p>
    On-site consulting is available as well, for standard rates
    plus travel, accomodation and out-of-pocket expenses.
  </p>

  </body>
</html>


