<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>Product vendor FAQ</h2>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <a href="ftf.en.html">Services</a> ] 
[ <a href="documentation.en.html">Documentation</a> ] 
[ <a href="community.en.html">Community</a> ] 
[ <a href="about.en.html">About</a> ] 
[ <a href="contact.en.html">Contact</a> ]
</p>
</div>

<h3>As a seller of GNU GPL based products what is good practice?</h3>

<ul>
<li>Remember the licence requires you to either provide the source code with your product or to include a written offer to provide the source code on demand. Putting a copy of the source code on a bundled Documentation CD is a great way to do this.</li>
<li>If you use GPL software you need to include a copy of the GPL with your licence documentation and make it clear that your product contains GPL software.</li>
<li>If you provide software or firmware updates via the Internet, and they contain GPL software, you have to provide the corresponding source code for that update.</li>
</ul>

<p>This is not legal advice. If you have doubts consult a legal advisor.</p>

<h3>What are common mistakes?</h3>

<ul>
<li>Using standard boilerplate text which claims the entire software is the copyright of your company. This is not true if you use Free Software copyrighted by 3rd parties in the product.</li>
<li>Forgetting to include the written offer for the source code.</li>
<li>Including the wrong version of the source code. The source code has to be exactly the same version as the executable (object) code actually shipped.</li>
<li>Forgetting to include the "scripts used to control compilation and installation of the executable"; the tools required to compile and install the GPL licensed components.</li>
<li>Only including a link to the GPL licence text instead of a verbatim copy.</li>
<li>Only including a download link to the source code rather than a written offer to ship the source code on a physical storage medium customarily used for information interchange.</li>
<li>In the case of software distribution through making code publicly available for download: linking to a licence text or source code on servers other than yours. This amounts to GPL Section "3c" (passing on a written offer) which is only valid for non-commercial distribution.</li>
</ul>

<h3>What should I do if our company has violated the license?</h3>

<p>Fix it. This works in exactly the same way as you would fix a violation of a proprietary software license.</p>

<p>If you violate the licence on GNU/Linux you are violating the copyright of countless parties, including companies like Intel, IBM and HP; all three companies have copyright on significant portions of the Linux kernel. Violation is a serious matter and must be rectified.</p>

<h3>As a vendor where can I get help?</h3>

<p>There are a variety of sources of help and information. The first port of call should probably be your supplier of GPL software components. You may also wish to consult a lawyer. The GPL licence is written to be as clear as possible but a lawyer can be helpful for complex issues like derivative works.</p>

<p>Sites such as Sourceforge.net can help by providing hosting for GPL versions of software.</p>

<h3>How do I make the community happy?</h3>

<p>The biggest contribution you can make to the community is giving access to code. One of the most useful things that a company can do is to contribute back changes they made. Putting the software somewhere accessible to all like sourceforge.net is really helpful too. Some vendors try and build communities around code and get involved with community development, others simply release it and forget about it. The choice is yours.</p>

<h3>Will using GPL code cost me a lot?</h3>

<p>No. Your duty is to provide either the source code of the GPL components or a written offer to provide the source code for no more than the cost of delivery. There is no obligation to third parties, there is no obligation to support software created using your changes. The GPL also includes warranty disclaimers.</p>

<p>It is possible to meet the license requirements simply by including a copy of the GPL licence in the application manual, and appropriate credit and a zip file of the relevant source code on your product CD-ROM.</p>

<p>The only situation where GPL code might cost you a lot is if you set out to violate the licence.</p>

<p>Copyright (c) 2004-2006 The gpl-violations.org webmaster <br />
Copyright (c) 2006 FSFE e.V.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
