<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Licensing FAQ - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>What is software licensing?</h2>

<localmenu/>

<p>Software licences tell people how the rights holder (usually the author) 
wants the software to be used and what freedoms or restrictions it has. 
Without a licence, many uses of the software may be prohibited.</p>

<p>Free Software licenses are licenses that give permission for a user to
obtain four important freedoms; the freedom to use, modify, share and
improve software [1]. Copyleft licenses are Free Software licences that
allow the four fundamental freedoms under the condition that those
freedoms remain intact in further distribution of the software or
derivative works.</p>

<p>The GNU GPL is the most famous Free Software copyleft license and is
used by a large percentage of Free Software projects.  It has many
useful features, like ensuring the four freedoms and providing a limited
warranty and disclaimer of liability clause to protect developers
releasing their work to the public [2].</p>

<p>There are many Free Software licenses, some without any copyleft effect.
Some of these are compatible with the GNU GPL, some have special
provisions that enable compatibility, some are incompatible [3].</p>

<p>If people use the same licence or at least compatible licences then
projects can exchange code freely.  We encourage everyone to use the 
GNU GPL for all software.</p>

<p>If you would like more information about Free Software please visit:</p>

<ul> 
<li>[1] <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">What is Free Software?</a></li> 
<li>[2] <a href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl.html">The GNU
General Public License</a></li> 
<li> [3] <a href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/">List of Free Software
Licenses</a></li>
</ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
