<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FAQ - FTF - FSFE</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>General FAQ</h2>
	
<localmenu/>

<h3>What is the Freedom Task Force?</h3>

<p>The Freedom Task Force provides licence support services to individuals, projects and businesses involved with Free Software.</p>

<p>We are a project run by Free Software Foundation Europe and we work to complement existing groups or organisations that provide Free Software legal support. Our goal is to improve legal awareness and support for Free Software in the European arena, and to ultimately strengthen the legal foundation of the Free Software.</p>

<h3>What is the structure of the Freedom Task Force?</h3>

<p>We have a full-time coordinator, networks of technical and legal experts, and a volunteer network containing people from multiple backgrounds.</p>

<h3>What services does the Freedom Task Force offer?</h3>

<p>We offer licensing services to individuals, projects and businesses involved with Free Software. These services include licence consultancy and education, fiduciary services and licence enforcement.</p>

<h3>Do you just help with European projects?</h3>

<p>You can come to the FTF with worldwide licensing questions. If we cannot answer your questions directly we will help connect you to the right parties. One of our primary roles is to facilitate effective networking.</p>

<h3>How can I contact the Freedom Task Force?</h3>

<p>You can contact us through our <a href="/projects/ftf/form.html">online form</a> or by email, post or telephone. <a href="contact.html">Click here for all the available options</a>.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with gpl-violations.org?</h3>

<p>We work in partnership with gpl-violations.org. Our primary area of cooperation is in dealing with violations of Free Software licences.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with the FSF License Lab?</h3>

<p>All of the Free Software Foundations cooperate to ensure the promotion and protection of Free Software. A practical example of this would be that a recent licence violation case was passed from the FTF to the FSF Compliance Lab because it involved FSF copyright.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with the Software Freedom Law Center?</h3>

<p>We have the same goal of strengthening the Free Software eco-system. We will cooperate where possible to ensure the promotion and protection of Free Software.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
