<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>Compliance Checklist</h2>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <b><a href="ftf.html">Services</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="documentation.html">Documentation</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="community.html">Community</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="about.html">About</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="contact.html">Contact</a></b> ]
</p>
</div>

<p>This compliance checklist can help you avoid some of the common errors encountered when releasing code under the GNU GPL licence.</p>

<p>This is not legal advice. If you have doubts consult a legal advisor.</p>

<h3>GNU GPL Compliance Checklist</h3>

<b>Basic guidelines:</b>

<ol>
<li>Make sure the source code of the software is available to users.</li>
<li>Make sure you do not claim the software is the copyright of your company. This is not true if you include Free Software copyrighted by third parties in the product.</li>
<li>Make sure you are distributing the correct version of the source code. The source code has to be exactly the same version as the executable (object) code actually shipped.</li>
<li>Make sure you include the source code for any derivative works of the GNU GPL code you are using, not just of the third-party GNU GPL components themselves.</li>
<li>Make sure you include the scripts used to control compilation and installation.</li>
<li>If the toolchain is released and contains tools under the GNU GPL (like the GCC compiler), the source code for those tools must also be released.</li>
</ol>

<b>Shipping the product:</b>

<ol>
<li>Make sure a copy of the GNU GPL licence is shipped with the product.</li>
<li>Make sure a copy of the source code is shipped with the product or that you include a written offer to provide the source code on a physical media like a CD ROM for no more than the cost of production and shipping.</li>
<li>Get your suppliers to warrant that they will fully disclose the presence of any GPL software and give you all the materials you need to comply once you ship. If your supplier turns out to not comply with the GPL you have 
a problem too.</li>
<li>Remember you cannot offer a download link to the source code instead of a written offer to ship the source code on physical media.  You can supplement the written offer with a reference to a download site. This may reduce the number of requests for source code.</li>
<li>Remember that if your product is downloaded from the Internet, linking to a licence text or source code on servers other than your own is only allowed for non-commercial distributions.</li>
</ol>

<p>Copyright (c) 2004-2006 The gpl-violations.org webmaster <br />
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 FSFE e.V.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
