<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>FAQ: About the FTF</h2>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <a href="ftf.en.html">Services</a> ] 
[ <a href="documentation.en.html">Documentation</a> ] 
[ <a href="community.en.html">Community</a> ] 
[ <a href="about.en.html">About</a> ] 
[ <a href="contact.en.html">Contact</a> ]
</p>
</div>

<h3>What is the Freedom Task Force?</h3>

<p>It is a shield for Free Software.  The Freedom Task Force provides licence 
support services to individuals, projects and businesses involved with 
Free Software. We are here to help strengthen the legal foundation of the 
Free Software eco-system</p>

<h3>What services does the Freedom Task Force offer?</h3>

<ul>
<li>Fiduciary activity</li>
<li>License violations</li>
<li>License education</li>
</ul>

<h3>How can I contact the Freedom Task Force?</h3>

<ul>
<li>You can send a message through our <a href="https://roundup.fsfeurope.org/ftf/home?@template=entryform">online form</a></li>
<li>You can email us at <a href="mailto:ftf@roundup.fsfeurope.org">ftf@roundup.fsfeurope.org</a></li>
</ul>

<h3>What connection do you have with gpl-violations.org?</h3>

<p>We work in partnership with gpl-violations.org to protect Free Software.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with the FSF License Lab?</h3>

<p>All of the Free Software Foundations cooperate to ensure the promotion
and protection of Free Software.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with the Software Freedom Law Center?</h3>

<p>We have the same goal of promoting and protecting Free Software.  We will cooperate where possible to ensure the 
promotion and protection of Free Software.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
