<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FLA - FTF - FSFE</title>
    <link ref="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>

	<h1>FTF: Fiduciary Programme</h1>

<localmenu/>

<p>The FTF can act as the legal guardian of Free Software projects. The FSFE Fiduciary Programme allows projects to use the <a href="fla.html">Fiduciary License Agreement (FLA)</a> to assign copyrights to FSFE, allowing the consolidation and effective management of their copyright status. This allows developers to focus on making great applications, without worrying about legal stuff.</p>

<p>Our approach can be summarised in a sentence.  The FTF makes sure projects are in a strong legal position without being prescriptive; we don't dictate project policy or project management. Our job is to make sure you can do your job.</p>

<p>The details of our <a href="guidelines.html">fiduciary selection process</a> and our <a href="fiduciary-policy.html">policies</a> are available for review.</p>

<p>You can also adapt the Fiduciary License Agreement (FLA) to consolidate your copyright under your own administrative umbrella.  We have a page containing customisable versions of the FLA <a href="fla.html">here</a>.</p>

<p>If you would like more information about our fiduciary programme please <a href="contact.html">contact us</a>.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
