<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Freedom Task Force - FSFE</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Freedom Task Force (FTF)</h1>

    <localmenu id="1">Overview</localmenu>

    <p id="introduction">
      The Freedom Task Force collects and shares knowledge about Free
      Software law, safeguards the interests of Free Software projects,
      connects experts throughout the world and helps other groups
      achieve similar goals.  We do this in partnership with
      gpl-violations.org and members of the European Legal Network.
    </p>

    <p>
      We provide education and consultancy services at competitive
      market rates.  You can contact us 24 hours a day by email or during
      normal German working hours by telephone with questions or requests
      for assistance.
    </p>

    <div class="grid-50-50">
      <div class="box first">
        <h3>Documentation</h3>

        <p>
          The FTF keeps a collection of <a
            href="documentation.en.html">documentation</a> on Free
          Software Legal and Licensing topics. It also writes its own
          guides and handbooks.
        </p>

        <ul class="continue">
          <li><a href="documentation.html">Overview</a></li>
          <li><a href="faq-what-is-licensing.html">What is licensing?</a></li>
          <li><a href="useful-tips-for-users.en.html">GPLv2 for users</a></li>
          <li><a href="useful-tips-for-vendors.en.html">GPLv2 for vendors</a></li>
        </ul>


        <h3>European Legal Network</h3>

        <p>
          The FTF maintains the world's largest private, non-partisan,
          vendor-neutral network of legal experts in the field of Free
          Software licensing. This network is active in developing
          knowledge on licensing and legal issues, interprets and
          analyses licenses and thinks about the answers to the next Big
          Question around Free Software and legal.
        </p>
      
        <p>
          The European Legal Network (ELN) is a world-wide network and is
          actively looking for legal experts in Central and Eastern
          Europe, the Far East and Latin America. If you are general
          counsel for a Free Software company, head of a
          Free-Software-oriented legal department, academic researcher
          or legal leader for a Free Software project, please <a href="contact.en.html">contact us</a>.
        </p>

        <p>
          Each year, the ELN Workshop is held to help spread
          knowledge among lawyers and counsel on topics at
          the forefront of governance for Free Software projects.
          In 2010, the workshop will be held in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
          You can find the <a href="activities-workshop.html">conference information here</a>.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="box">
        <h3>For Business</h3>

        <p>
          Business increasingly uses Free Software and engages with Free
          Software development. This leads to questions about licensing,
          the legal structure of Free Software projects, mechanisms for
          engaging with Free Software projects and means of governing your
          own projects. The FTF can provide advice on these topics through
          workshops, training or
          presentations. We regularly speak at conferences on these and similar
          topics; these presentations can be
          given at your business as well.
        </p>

        <ul class="continue">
          <li><a href="services.html">Service Overview</a></li>
        </ul>


        <h3>For Projects</h3>

        <p>
          Free Software projects which need advice on licensing issues
          or project governance can <a href="contact.html">contact the
            FTF</a> for help. Our complete portfolio of <a
            href="services.html">support for Free Software
            projects</a> is available as well.
        </p>

        <ul class="continue"> 
          <li><a href="services.html">Service Overview</a></li>
          <li><a href="fla.en.html">Fiduciary Licensing</a></li>
        </ul>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
