<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/projects/ftf/ftf.html">Freedom Task Force</a>

    <h1>About FSFE's Legal Work</h1>

    <p class="background">
      The Freedom Task Force (FTF) helps individuals, projects and businesses
      understand Free Software licensing and the opportunities that it
      presents.  Our responsibilities are education, training, consultancy,
      fiduciary services and licence enforcement.  We coordinate FSFE's
      legal activities and manages the Foundation's interaction with issues
      like the European Commission versus Microsoft anti-trust case.
    </p>

    <h2>Education</h2>

    <p>
      The FTF can answer questions, provide training and help implement best
      practices. We offer a variety of services to individuals, projects and
      businesses.
    </p>

    <h2>Training</h2>

    <p>
      The FTF offers individual training, training seminars and complete
      training courses on Free Software licensing issues.  Please contact us
      for prices and availability.
    </p>

    <h2>Fiduciary services</h2>

    <p>
      The FTF can help consolidate copyright under the Fiduciary Licence
      Agreement (FLA). We can also act as the legal guardian of Free Software
      projects.
    </p> 

    <h2>Licence enforcement</h2>

    <p>
      The FTF works in partnership with gpl-violations.org and both commercial
      and non-commercial stakeholders to resolve licensing issues in Europe.
    </p>

    <h2>Our People</h2>

    <p>
      The FTF has a coordinator, general counsel and volunteers that help
      answer incoming questions, facilitate discussions and meetings, and
      manage FSFE's internal legal affairs.
    </p>

    <h2>Our Methods</h2>

    <p>
      We believe in positive engagement and constructive dialogue. We seek to
      bring stakeholders together and to work for the long-term benefit of Free
      Software.
    </p>

    <h2>Our Goals</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        To collect, analyse and share legal knowledge about Free Software.
      </li>
      <li>
        To bring together Free Software legal and technical experts.
      </li>
      <li>
        To safeguard the interests of Free Software projects and businesses.
      </li>
      <li>
        To work with other groups and help them achieve similar goals.
      </li>
    </ul>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstrasse 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: ftf@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/ftf/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->