<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>The European Legal Network Conference - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
        <h1>The European Legal Network Conference</h1>

    <p>
      The European Legal Network Conference is held every year to allow legal
      experts to discuss the future of Free Software licenses and associated
      best practice in this field. This has become the world's premier event
      for debating, discussing and sharing knowledge around Free Software legal
      affairs.  It has a strong focus on legal fact rather than opinion, the
      growing eco-system and internationalization.  Attendees seek to explore
      and facilitate cooperative solutions for the largest common challenges.
    </p>
      
    <p>
      The European Legal Network Conference 2011 will feature speakers like
      Eben Moglen from SFLC, Scott Peterson from HP, Jason Wacha from MontaVista
      and Harald Welte from gpl-violations.org.  Our theme this year will be
      'Free Software law for the next ten years.' 
    </p>
    
    <p>    
    We will hold talks and panels over two days in a single track while also
    providing ample time for networking and free discussion.  There will be a
    room dedicated to talks and panels, and a room dedicated to informal
    meetings.  Both will be equipped with screens and video projectors.
    Coffee and tea will be served during the event, along with a buffet lunch
    and water throughout.
    </p>

    <h3>Venue</h3>

    <p>
      The European Legal Network Conference 2011 will be held at the new
      MintHotel on the 7th and 8th April 2011 in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
    </p>

    <p>The address and contact telephone number is:<br />
    <i>Mint Hotel Amsterdam<br />
    Oosterdoksstraat 4<br />
    1011 DJ Amsterdam<br />
    The Netherlands<br />
    Tel: +44 (0)207 901 1606</i>
    </p>
    <p>You can also view it on <a href="http://ur1.ca/2mjq5">OpenStreetMap</a>.
    </p>

    <h3>Registration</h3>

    <p>
      Due to a limited number of places available this event is limited to
      invitation-only pre-registration, though legal experts are welcome to
      apply for places by emailing legal@fsfeurope.org.
    </p>
    
<p><a href="/projects/ftf/">&lt; - Go back to FSFE Legal's front page</a>.</p>
    
  </body>
</html>

