<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h1>The European Legal and Technical Network</h1>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <b><a href="ftf.html">Services</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="network.html">Legal and Technical Network</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="documentation.html">Documentation</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="about.html">About</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="contact.html">Contact</a></b> ]
</p>
</div>

<p>The Freedom Task Force coordinates European Legal and Technical Networks, with each participant being referred to as a 'delegate' of their respective network.  Both of these networks are invitation only, though if you are interested in participating you can <a href="contact.html">contact us</a>.</p>

<h2>The Legal Network:</h2>

<p>
The European Legal Network is an informal network of lawyers and legal experts.  Our goal is to strengthen the legal foundation of Free Software through building connections between professionals and researchers active on the continent. The network currently has over 40 legal experts, covers sixteen European countries and maintains contacts in Canada, the USA, Singapore and Taiwan.
</p>

<p style="margin:20px"><b>Explicitly recommended lawyers:</b></p>

<p style="margin:40px"><b>Germany</b><br />
Dr. Till Jaeger is a partner in the Berlin law firm JBB Rechtsanwälte.  
He represents FSFE in Germany and Harald Welte in GPL enforcement 
cases.  He is chair of the "Internationalization" subcommittee within 
the GPLv3 process.<br />
<b>Email:</b> jaeger [at] jbb.de<br />
<b>Telephone:</b> +49 30 443 765 0<br />
<b>Post:</b> JBB Rechtsanwälte, Christinenstrasse 18/19, 10119 Berlin, Germany.<br />
<br />
<b>Italy</b><br />
Carlo Piana is a partner at the Milan law firm 
Studio Legale Tamos Piana and Partners.  Among other things, he 
represents FSFE and Samba in the Microsoft vs. EC Commission Antitrust 
case and lectures at the University of Milan.<br />
<b>Email:</b> carlo.piana [at] avvocatinteam.com<br />
<b>Telephone:</b> +39 02 7000 6392<br />
<b>Post:</b> Studio Legale Tamos Piana and Partners, Palazzo dell'Elfo, Via Ciro 
Menotti 11, 20129 Milano, Italy.<br />
<br />
<b>Other countries</b><br />
A lawyer must be <a href="legal-network-policy.html">approved</a> by the governing council of FSFE to be explicitly recommended.  If you want to find a lawyer in a country where we offer no explicit recommendation, please <a href="contact.html">contact us directly</a>.</p>

<h2>The Technical Network:</h2>

<p>
The European Techical Network is an informal network of technical experts.  It complements the European Legal Network and provides connections between professionals and researchers active on the continent. The network currently has 25 technical specialists and includes various European and Asian representatives.
</p>

<p style="margin:20px"><b>Explicitly recommended technical experts:</b></p>

<p style="margin:40px">
<b>Germany</b><br />
Harald Welte is a kernel programmer, the founder of GPL-Violations.org and one of the primary engineers behind the creation of the OpenMoko Free Software telephone project.<br />
<b>Email:</b> laforge [at] gnumonks.org<br />
<br />
<b>The Netherlands</b><br />
Armijn Hemel is a system administrator and a primary member of the GPL-Violations.org team.<br />
<b>Email:</b> armijn [at] uulug.nl<br />
<br />
<b>Other countries</b><br />
A technical expert must be <a href="technical-network-policy.html">approved</a> by the governing council of FSFE to be explicitly recommended.  If you want to find a technical expert in a country where we offer no explicit recommendation, please <a href="contact.html">contact us directly</a>.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
