<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>European Legal Network - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
  <p id="category"><a href="/projects/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
  	<h1>The European Legal Network</h1>

<p id="introduction">
        The European Legal Network is a neutral, non-partisan, private network
        of legal professionals facilitated by FSFE. Delegates share knowledge
        and cooperate to increase the availability of best practice information
        about Free Software licensing. The network has over 280 participants
        across 28 countries and 4 continents, and it is the largest legal
        support structure for Free Software in the world.
    </p>

<p>The network occasionally produces public documentation to help people explore and understand legal matters. These are discussion documents and the contents do not constitute legal advice or necessarily reflect the opinions of any contributor, or FSFE's own positions. You can find out more about these documents on  <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/EuropeanLegalNetwork">the independent network wiki</a>.</p>

<p>FSFE has extensive legal contacts in Europe, and can help locate legal experts in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Ireland, Poland, Portugal, Greece, Germany, Romania, Serbia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands and the UK. FSFE can also provide introductions to experts in Australia, Canada, China, Israel, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and the USA. Some network delegates are <a href="/projects/ftf/recommended.html">explicitly recommended by FSFE</a>.</p>

<p>Network delegates have expressed a particular interest in welcoming new experts from countries that recently joined the EU, from the Baltic states, and across Asia.</p>

<p>If you are a legal expert interested in participating in the European Legal Network, you may either ask an existing network member to recommend them, or may <a href="/projects/ftf/contact.html">contact FSFE's internal legal team</a> directly.</p>

<p>Successful applicants will have profound expertise in legal matters pertaining to Free Software, and will join the network in order to share their knowledge with their peers from around the world. Discussions on the network are always conducted in a professional and respectful tone, and are held under the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatham_House_Rule">Chatham House rule</a>. Members agree to adhere to these rules when joining the network.
</p>

  <timestamp>$Date:mar. 24 janv. 2012 21:01:30 CET $ $Author: hugo $</timestamp>
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
