<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h1>FTF: Services</h1>

    <localmenu id="2">Services</localmenu>

<h3>Administrative Support</h3>

<p>We can help answer common questions about Free Software licensing, best practice or its origins.  We can also assist projects build formal structure by sharing information on management practices, copyright consolidation and community relations, or by providing referrals to qualified experts in the field.  Please <a href="contact.html">contact us</a> for more information.</p> 

<h3>Training and Consultancy</h3>

<p>We provide <a href="/projects/ftf/education.html">training and consultancy</a> on Free Software licensing and the strategic implementation of Free Software in business.</p>

<h3>Public Speaking</h3>

<p>FTF representatives speak on Free Software licensing best practice, the implementation of Free Software by businesses, and project management. For more information or to arrange for one of our representatives to speak at your event please <a href="contact.html">contact us</a>.</p>

<h3>License Compliance</h3>

<p>We work in partnership with <a href="http://gpl-violations.org" target="_blank">gpl-violations.org</a> to
  resolve licensing issues for the long-term benefit of Free Software.  If you
  have a licensing issue you want to report, please follow these <a href="reporting-fixing-violations.html">guidance</a>.</p>

<h3>Fidiciary License Agreement (FLA)</h3>

<p>We help projects adopt the <a href="fla.html">Fiduciary License Agreement</a>.  The FLA allows one entity to safeguard all of the code created for a project by consolidating copyright (or exclusive exploitation rights) to counteract copyright fragmentation.</p>

<h3>Fiduciary Programme</h3>

<p>The <a href="fiduciary.html">FSFE Fiduciary Programme</a> allows projects to use the FLA to assign copyright for their code to FSFE, so that they can take care of writing code, while legal issues are dealt with by the FTF. The programme is subject to stringent acceptance criteria.</p>

<h3>Administrative Support</h3>

<p>We can help answer questions about Free Software license adoption or use. Our services in this area range from describing the type of formal structures that can make using code easier through to asssiting with community relations or resolving issues with incompliant code.  We can also help you find legal and technical experts to provide specialized services when necessary.</p> 

<h3>Training and Consultancy</h3>

<p>We provide extensive services in the field of Free Software <a href="/projects/ftf/education.html">eduation and deployment</a>.  Whether you want to explore this form of licensing for the first time, or simply optimize your current use of the licenses, we have a solution available.  We also specialize in helping individuals and projects use Free Software more effectively.</p>

<h3>Public Speaking</h3>

<p>We speak on topics ranging from Free Software licensing through to code governance, business use cases, issue resolution and project management. We are flexible with regards audience size and demographic, and deliver speeches both commercial and as part of FSFE's educational outreach activities.</p>

<h3>License Compliance</h3>

<p>We work with our partners at <a href="http://gpl-violations.org" target="_blank">gpl-violations.org</a> to resolve licensing issues that affect both commercial and non-commercial projects or products.  Our activity in this sphere is purely educational and designed to help strengthen the long-term value proposition of Free Software.</p>

<h3>Fidiciary License Agreement (FLA)</h3>

<p>We make a specialized copyright assignment document called the <a href="fla.html">Fiduciary License Agreement</a> available to the community at large.  The FLA allows one entity to safeguard all of the code created for a project by consolidating copyright (or exclusive exploitation rights).  We can assist projects or business adapt and adopt it for their own use.</p>

<h3>Fiduciary Programme</h3>

<p>We also use the FLA for our own <a href="http://www.fsfe.org/projects/ftf/fiduciary.en.html">Fiduciary Programme</a>.  This allows projects to assign copyright to FSFE, and FSFE then deals with any legal issues that occur for that project.  This frees up developers to focus on coding great new solutions.</p>

<h3>Learn More</h3>

<p>For more information about any of our services simply <a href="contact.html">contact us</a>.  We welcome both commercial and non-commercial enquiries, and are glad to assist individuals as well as projects or businesses.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
