<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Freedom Task Force (FTF)</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<h2>Learn more about Free Software licensing</h2>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<p>
[ <b><a href="ftf.html">Services</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="network.html">Networks</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="documentation.html">Documentation</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="community.html">Community</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="about.html">About</a></b> ] 
[ <b><a href="contact.html">Contact</a></b> ]
</p>
</div>

<p>The FTF currently offers training courses in Switzerland and Sweden.  In Switzerland we work in partnership with Digicomp academy and in Sweden we work with Internet Academy.  Our goal is to help ensure the provision of high quality educational courses for individuals, projects and businesses interested in Free Software.</p>

<h3>A Free Software licensing course for you</h3>

<p>We are offering a unique and accessible two day course to explore Free
Software licensing questions and other legal issues.  This course is available in Switzerland on the 10th and 11th of both September and December in partnership with Digicomp Academy.  It is available in Sweden on the 18th and 19th of September in partnership with Internet Academy.</p>

<h3>Why should you attend this course?</h3>

<p>The course will explain the types of licence used in Free Software.
It will examine the legal questions involved in a project with
multiple participants, describing what possibilities and pitfalls
exist in mixing code from different sources.  The course will cover
various methods of creating and using code that is released both
freely for community use and to produce commercial products.  It will
cover best-practice models for developers and projects that adopt Free
Software.  In addition to this, the course will examine how Free
Software licensing can be used to produce commercial products within
the context of existing business models.</p>

<h3>What questions will be answered?</h3>

<p>This course will examine questions ranging from 'What is Free Software?'
through to 'How can Free Software licensing fit into your business 
model?', and will use real-world examples to help explain the concepts.
 The course approach the important issues from first principles, and 
participants are encouraged to interact with questions and concerns of 
their own.</p>

<h3>Required Knowledge</h3>

<p>Some knowledge of software development would be useful but is not 
required.  This course will introduce and explain the concepts used 
at each stage.</p>

<h3>Course Goals</h3>

<ul>
<li>To explain the concepts of Free Software licensing.</li>
<li>To examine some of the common questions regarding Free Software legal issues.</li>
<li>To provide real-world examples of Free Software in practical use.</li>
<li>To introduce decision-makers, project leaders and developers to best practice models in Free Software deployment.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Find Out More</h3>

<p>To find out more about this course you can contact us directly.</p>

<p>The best way to contact us is through our <a href="form.html">online form</a> or by sending an email to
<a
href="mailto:ftf@fsfeurope.org">ftf@fsfeurope.org</a>.  Your messages will automatically enter our queue and be dealt with as quickly as possible.</p>

<h3>Postal address:</h3>

<p>
Freedom Task Force<br />
Free Software Foundation Europe<br />
Sumatrastrasse 25<br />
8006 Zurich<br />
Switzerland
</p>

<h3>Telephone numbers:</h3>

<p>
Belgium: +32   2 747 03 57    ext 408
</p>
<p>
Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73 ext 408
</p>
<p>
Sweden: +46 31 7802160       ext 408
</p>
<p>
Switzerland: +41  43 500 03 66    ext 408
</p>
<p>UK: +44  29 200 08 17 7  ext 408
</p>


<h3>About the FTF</h3>

<p>The Freedom Task Force (FTF) is a project managed by Free Software
Foundation Europe that provides licence support services to
individuals, projects and businesses involved with Free Software. The
FTF offers a variety of services for individuals, community projects
and commercial businesses, using our network of legal and technical
experts throughout Europe to deliver timely solutions.  We answer
questions, provide training and help various organisations implement
best practices for using Free Software.</p>

 <p>Download a copy of the <a href="trainingcourse.pdf">leaflet describing this course</a>. [PDF]</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
