<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-04-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - April 2011</title>
</head>
<body>


<h1>FSFE Newsletter - April 2011</h1>

<h2>A decade of Freedom: FSFE turned 10</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">
One room with a bed, a desk, and a sofa. That was the situation when
your editor started working as an intern for FSFE in Georg Greve's one
room appartment in Hamburg in 2004. FSFE started with its operations
in <a href="/news/2011/news-20110310-01.html">March 2001</a> as the first
sister organisation of the FSF in the US. We have come <a href="/about/history/birthday10.html">a
long way</a> since then.
First of all, our interns don't get Georg's mandatory cooking lessons any more,
instead they now have their own desks and do not have to work from the
sofa any more. Second, we now have the Fellowship which leads to a growth
of volunteers and activities:</p>

<ul>
<li>In the UK, Sam Tuke is currently busy setting up a punchy team. They
  are giving talks, organising events, and documenting
  <a href="/uk/mapping-uk.html">the developments</a> in the future
  role of Free Software in the British public sector.</li>
<li>Our Italian team is currently supporting ADUC to get rid of the
  <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/WindowsTaxRefund">Windows Tax</a>. ADUC is
  an Italian association for users/consumers' rights who recently filed a
  class action request against Microsoft Italy's refusal of reimbursing
  unused OEM licences for its operating system. Carlo Piana is helping
  ADUC's lawyers and Giacomo Poderi with the Italian team will help to
  <a href="/news/2011/news-20110321-01.html">raise awareness on this issue</a>.</li>
<li>In Switzerland you have a confusing landscape of different Free
  Software organisations, which have problems with coordination. It was
  nearly impossible to find out what is going on in the next weeks, or
  to find a date for an activity which does not interfere with another
  group. That's why the Zurich Fellowship group has now set up an event
  calendar on <a href="http://freie-termine.ch">freie-termine.ch</a> to
  improve this situation.</li>
<li>Our Swedish team was actively publishing
  <a href="http://fscons.org/2010/news/fscons-2010-videos-finally">videos from FSCONS</a>.
  Last year in
  November, we hosted our own track at FSCONS around different topics of
  decentralised (social) networks and free network services. Now the
  <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2011/03/28/fscons-2010-divide-and-re-conquer-talks-now-online/">videos of the talks</a>
  are finally online.</li>
<li>This year there are at least 8 Federal State elections in Germany. The
  German team already received replies from the parties in
  <a href="/campaigns/ayc/201103-germany-sachsen-anhalt.de.html">Sachsen-Anhalt</a>,
  <a href="/campaigns/ayc/201103-germany-rheinland-pfalz.de.html">Rheinland-Pfalz</a>,
  and <a href="/campaigns/ayc/201103-germany-baden-wuerttemberg.de.html">Baden-Würrtemberg</a>
  on questions like general support of Free Software, problems of vendor
  lock-in, <a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a>,
  <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">non-free PDF readers advertisements</a>
  on public websites, the use of <a href="/activities/education/education.html">Free Software in education</a>,
  and <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">software patents</a>. The same will
  be done for the remaining elections.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Worldwide celebration of Open Standards</h2>
<p>
Open Standards are a common language, publicly documented, that computer
programs can speak. They are central to interoperability and freedom of
choice in technology. Open Standards allow Free Software developers to
create programs that can interoperate with other solutions, so users can
migrate away from proprietary solutions.
</p>

<p>
Many of you followed our call to participate in this year's Document
Freedom Day: in Brazil, the Federal Data Processing Company - Serpro -
hold events in 10 cities. In the European Parliament, experts discussed
Open Standards as a means to guarantee access to cultural works in the
long term. Other groups participated in Argentina, Belgium, Brazil,
Croatia, Greece, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Panama, Portugal,
Spain and United Kingdom. Selected FSFE activities include:
<ul>
<li>The City Munich was awarded with the European Document Freedom Day
  prize for its <a href="/news/2011/news-20110330-02.html">LiMux project</a>.</li>
<li><a href="/news/2011/news-20110330-01.html">Tagesschau.de awarded</a> for
  the use of Open Standards: The prize was
  awarded in Berlin and Hamburg by the Foundation for a Free Information
  Infrastructure (FFII) and us for offering the broadcast shows also
  in the free video format "Ogg Theora". As you can see on the
  <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=765">pictures</a> (DE) the cake
  was amazing (also available <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/nicoulas/?p=87">in French</a>)</li>
<li>"A bright Document Freedom Day for Britain?"
  about <a href="/news/2011/news-20110330-04.html">Open Standards in Britain</a>.</li>
</ul>
</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>
<ul>
<li>Redhat made $909 million with Free Software and Nokia is spreading
  FUD?: After Mirko Böhm wrote <a href="http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/4394">an interesting analysis</a>
  on the current Nokia move, your editor <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=736">commented on Nokia's announcement</a>
  about selling the proprietary Qt business to Digia. This also led to
  interesting discussions on our public mailing lists about the meaning of
  "commercial". </li>

<li>Our freshly elected Fellowship representative
  <a href="/news/2011/news-20110301-01.html">Hugo Roy</a> wrote about <a href="http://blog.hugoroy.eu/2011/03/28/ipred-remettre-en-question-la-politique-de-lue-en-matiere-de-droit-dauteur-et-de-brevets-sur-internet/">IPRED</a> (FR).</li>
<li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=267">Fellowship
  Interview with Dan Leinir Turthra Jensen</a>. Dan describes the
  aims of these exciting gaming projects, and discusses what Free
  Software could mean for gaming in future.</li>
<li>New Legal News available for <a href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/232">19.02.-25.02.</a>,
	<a href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/233">26.02.-04.03.</a>,
	<a href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/236">05.03.-13.03.</a>,
	<a href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/237">14.03.-20.03.</a>,
	<a href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/238">21.03.-28.03.</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.fsf.org/news/2010-free-software-awards-announced">2010 Free Software Awards</a>
  go to: Rob Savoye and the TOR project.
  Savoye is a long-time free software hacker, who has worked on GNU and
  other free software for over 20 years. TOR is enabling people around
  the world to experience freedom of access and expression on the
  Internet while keeping them in control of their privacy and anonymity.</li>
<li>The FSF <a href="http://www.fsf.org/news/debian-squeeze-makes-key-progress-toward-being-a-fully-free-distribution">welcomed
  Debian's "Squeeze" release</a>.
  Debian GNU/Linux also received a prize at the Cebit, where Karsten
  Gerloff held the <a href="/events/2011/lnm-award-debian.html">laudatio</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Get Active - Translations for free PDF readers</h2>
<p>During <a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders">our pdfreaders campaign</a>
we received the
feedback that it is difficult to use some free PDF readers, as the
download pages, or the actual software is not translated. Since then our
intern Nicoulas Jean is in contact with several free PDF reader developers.
Take a look at <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/PDFreadersTranslations">our list of PDF readers</a>
and how to help them with translation, and take action:
<ul>
<li>Help translating your favorite PDF reader and ask others to do so.</li>
<li>Find out how to help with translations of the missing readers and add
  this information it to the website.</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>Regards,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>

<timestamp>$Date: 2011-03-14 17:23:06 +0100 (lun. 14 mars 2011) $ $Author: nicoulas $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
