<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2018-11-04" type="newsletter">

<head>
  	<title>FSFE Newsletter - November 2014</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201411">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – November 2014</h1>
	<div class="e-content">

<h2>Munich the uncertainty and doubt will persist longer</h2>

<p>This month Munich's first mayor finally reacted to an inquiry related to
rumours regarding a possible switch back to a Microsoft Windows-based desktop
environment. Since the middle of the year, the first mayor and second mayor
have stirred up confusion about the future IT strategy of Munich. Both mayors
already made negative comments about Free Software, when we send <a
href="/campaigns/askyourcandidates/201403-germany-bayern-muc.html">questions
to the candidates before the election in March</a> (in German). Despite efforts
on the side of the FSFE, especially our local Munich group, facts about the
problems with Munich's Free Software installations were hard to obtain. <a
href="/news/2014/news-20141016-01.html">Now, as written in
our press release</a>, the answers to the inquiry shows that there is no
factual basis for their claims.</p>

<p>Unfortunately the statements by the first and second mayor were widely
spread in the media. A story like “Munich switches back to Microsoft” gives
more clicks than researching the facts and explaining that two mayors say
things they cannot prove, that others who would have to be involved in the
decision to switch back have other positions, or that the satisfaction with
software depends on how the installation and processes were implemented.</p>

<p>So when our Munich group held their booth at a street festival, several
people believed that Free Software is inferior to non-free software “as our
mayor said”. But it was not just in Germany: Nermin Canik, who organised <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/nermincanik/2014/10/25/ungovforum/">FSFE's at
Internet Ungovernance Forum in Istanbul</a>, told us at the FSFE's DFD team
meeting that her manager concluded from the media reports that the usability
and quality of Free Software is bad.  Now we will have to work hard again to
defeat the fear, uncertainty and doubt spread about Free Software.</p>

<h2>EU wide Open Standards policy</h2>

<p>But the answer to the inquiry includes another crucial point: the problem
with document formats. The Munich IT responsible noted that at the beginning of
their migration the German federal states and the federal government
highlighted the importance of Free Software and Open Standards, but afterwards
never consequently went this path.</p>

<p>In Germany the lack of a clear Open Standard Policy is a mayor blocker for
public administrations to use Free Software. In recent years other European
Countries such as Great Britain, France, Italy, and Sweden have done more to
promote Free Software and Open Standards.</p>

<p>On the European level, <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/prasident-des-deutschen-stadtetags-an-europaische-kommission-mehr-fur-freie-software-einsetzen/">the
former Munich mayor asked the European Commission to implement two measures to
enable participation with Free Software in EU projects</a>: First to have all
document templates which are available in Microsoft Office formats, also in
Open Document Text (ODT) format. Second that all presenter notebooks in the EU
institutions also have a program installed which can Open Document Presentation
(ODP) files. This was in 2011 and the European bodies have neglected
implementing Open Standard policies for a long time.</p>

<h2>Open Standard compliance checks</h2>

<p>When intuitions decide on Open Standards policies this is just the first
step. It is important to check this decision and to remind them about it. In
2010 as a Document Freedom Day activity our Fellows in Cologne and Bonn <a
href="/news/2010/news-20100803-01.html">checked the German
federal administrations after a decision that they have to be able to receive,
edit, and send back ODF</a>. The FSFE found out that only 2 of 87 departments
are conforming to federal open document regulations. This highlights the
importance of being persistent and monitoring the implementation of such
policies. Check out this month's “Get active” item with a specific suggestion
how you can help with that within a few minutes.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

<li><p>We are currently looking for interns again, <a
href="/news/2014/news-20141017-01.html">especially in
preparation of Document Freedom Day</a> but we also have <a
href="/contribute/internship.html">general internship
positions open from beginning of January</a>. When Max Mehl saw the news item
he published a <a
href="http://blog.mehl.mx/2014/my-internship-at-fsfe/">summary about his
internship with FSFE</a>.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="/news/2014/news-20141017-02.html">Together with
the Italian consumer association ADUC, and the Italian group ILS, we asked</a>
regulators to take concrete steps to protect Italians from being forced to pay
for software they do not want or need.</p></li>

<li><p>Local activities: Our Vienna group had their most active and successful
Autumn ever. Franz documented how they participated in the three big events <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/franz.gratzer/2014/10/23/three-autumn-events-2014/">Software
Freedom Day, the biggest German speaking animal rights conference, and the Game
City fair 2013</a>. Christian Kalkhoff from our Munich group gave a
presentation about the groups activities at the GNU Hackers Meeting 2014. The
<a
href="http://audio-video.gnu.org/video/ghm2014/2014-08--kalkhoff--fsfe--ghm.webm">video
is now online</a>. If you want to help with the organisation of the LibreOffice
conference 2015, <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/agger/2014/10/22/announcing-the-libreoffice-conference-for-2015-in-aarhus-denmark/">Carsten
Agger is still looking for assistance, as our Aarhus group will help at the
event</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Spoiler alarm: The last edition of the education news <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/10/free-software-in-education-news-%E2%80%93-september/">also
mentions the focus of the upcoming Document Freedom Day 2015</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Public administrations: The German town of <a
href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/105069">Gummersbach announced that this
summer it has completed its switch to GNU/Linux PCs</a>, <a
href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/104519">England's Healthwatch switches
to Free Software CiviCRM</a>, and a Free Software solution developed for the
government of South Tyrol (Italy) to automatically test government websites and
services is now <a
href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/tyrol-government-shares-test-tool-industry">also
being used to probe sites of the region's tourism sector</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Our sister organisation invites Free Software enthusiasts to the <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/registration-opens-for-libreplanet-2015">libre
planet conference 2015</a> in the US. Furthermore the <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/news/the-free-software-foundation-opens-nominations-for-the-17th-annual-free-software-awards">nomination
for the 17th annual Free Software Awards is open</a>, and you can send your
nominations before Sunday 16 November.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="http://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/33455.html">Matthew Garret wrote a
blog post on why he joined FSF's board</a>. But some of the comments he
received are really offensive, and your editor hopes that Matthew can just
ignore them. Related to this, your editor recommends you reading the article <a
href="http://lwn.net/Articles/615192/">“On the sickness of our community”</a>
by Jonathan Corbet. As always, if you have comments about it <a
href="/contact/community.html">send them to our discussion
lists</a>.</p></li>

<ul>
<li><p>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>:</p></li>

<li><p>Computers are entering the fashion field from multiple directions.
Current FSFE intern <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/puster/2014/10/14/meshcon-2014/">Michele Marrali
wrote about MeshCon 2014, a conference that connects fashion designer and
technology experts</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>André Ockers reports that <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/ao/2014/10/28/dutch-public-broadcaster-moves-away-from-open-standards/">the
Dutch public broadcaster NOS moves away from open standards</a></p></li>

<li><p>Matija Šuklje <a
href="http://matija.suklje.name/my-very-first-commit-to-kde">made his first
commit to KDE and writes about FSFE's Fiduciary Licence Agreement</a></p></li>

<li><p>Daniel Pocock <a
href="http://danielpocock.com/positive-results-from-opw-2013">reports positive
results from Outreach Program for Women</a></p></li>

<li><p>Hugo Roy explains how he <a
href="http://hroy.eu/posts/owncloud-encryption-defpub/">wrote a new defensive
publication for ownCloud's file syncing encryption</a>.</p></li>

</ul>

</ul>

<h2 id="get-active-fix-my-document---odf-in-eu-bodies">Get active: Fix my document - ODF in EU bodies</h2>

<p>The EU institutions still have a lot to do to remove barriers for Free
Software users. Together with Open Forum Europe (OFE) your editor had a meeting
with the IT responsible of the Commission, the Council, and the Parliament
about that. We discussed <a
href="/news/2014/news-20140326-02.html">our letter on video
format</a> and the campaign “FixMyDocuments.eu”. This campaign was started by
OFE to help EU institutions to implement <a
href="http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/informatics/oss_tech/pdf/2011-07-25_ares.pdf">their
decision to support Open Document Formats</a> FSFE's volunteers already
translated the website in more languages, but now it is time for all of you to
act.</p>

<p>We would like you to <em>find EU institutions who offer non-free
formats</em> on their website, without also publishing those documents in ODT,
and then <em><a href="http://fixmydocuments.eu/?page_id=9">submit
them</a></em>.</p>

<p>Furthermore OFE encourages and will support anyone who wants to use the
platform to cover other administrations.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>, <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>
    </div>
    <!--/e-content-->

</body>
        <sidebar promo="about-fsfe"><!--
            <h3>FSFE News</h3>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="/news/">Press Releases</a></li>
                <li><a href="/news/newsletter.html">Newsletters Archive</a></li>
                <li><a href="/events/">Upcoming Events</a></li>
                <li><a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/">Planet Blogs</a></li>
                <li><a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a></li>
            </ul>
        --></sidebar>
<author id="kirschner" />
<date>
<original content="2014-11-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
