<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-08-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - August 2011</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - August 2011</h1>

<h2>Inside stories by a critical thinker</h2>

<blockquote><p>"If people do not understand why their computing is related to
  their freedom, it’s because nobody explained them properly" (Bernhard
  Reiter)</p></blockquote>

<p newsteaser="yes">Bernhard Reiter is one of FSFE's founders and architect of the original German
team. He participated in setting
up three important Free Software organisations: FreeGIS.org, FFII, and
FossGIS. Besides that, he is founder and Executive Director of Intevation GmbH, a
company with exclusively Free Software products and services since 1999. 
</p>

<p>Interesting stories about setting up FSFE, challenges for Free Software, and
more are covered in <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=341">this month's
  Fellowship interview</a>.</p>


<h2>Become a Critical Thinker: Get Rid of "Intellectual Property"</h2>

<p>A lot of people talk about "intellectual property". When using this term, they
usually mix different things like copyright, patents, trademarks, also right to a name,
utility patents, business models, or even geographical indications. If you want to
think critically and clearly about challenges in the digital age, you should
separate those different issues.</p>

<p>If you really need a term to cover all that, you should use one which is not
that much biased. There are some suggestions in the articles mentioned below, like the
term "Limited Intellectual Monopolies".</p>

<p>But in 90% cases there is actually only one monopoly concerned.
Discussions will be much more productive if everybody knows what you
are talking about. So, if someone says "we need more protection of "intellectual
property", ask them what that means, perhaps it means they want to have
software patents. If someone says "we need to limit the scope of "intellectual
property", you should ask if they want to restrain copyright, patents or even abolish trademarks.</p>

<p>You can read more about this in Richard Stallman's article <a
  href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/not-ipr.html">"Did You Say
  'Intellectual Property'? It's a Seductive Mirage"</a>, Georg Greve's <a
  href="/campaigns/wsis/issues.html">"Fighting intellectual poverty (Who owns
  and controls the information societies?)"</a>, and your editor's <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=810">interview with Dradio Wissen</a> (in
German).</p>


<h2>Support FSFE in critical thinking</h2>

<p>For FSFE it is important that all of you support us. This way our work does not depend on
single donors, and we can continue to think and communicate
critical to promote software freedom.</p>

<p>It is now possible to <a href="/donate/donate.html">donate us 
monthly and yearly</a> by <strong>credit card</strong> and in Germany also by
<strong>direct debit</strong>. Beside that, in the Netherlands donations to FSFE can now be
deducted from income tax (before it was only possible in Germany and
Switzerland). If we get more than 20 new donors, your editor promises that he
will not write the word "critical" in the next newsletter.</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>
      
   
  <li>Richard Stallman wrote an article <a
    href="http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/0,1518,775218,00.html">"Resist
    the Temptations of the Cloud!"</a> (<a
    href="http://www.spiegel.de/netzwelt/web/0,1518,774766,00.html">German
    version</a>) in the German Magazine "Spiegel".</li>

 
  <li><a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders.org</a>. It is boring to
  follow up bugs, but it does not take a lot of time and has a good effect. In
  Italy volunteers again managed to close 13 bugs last month. Your editor gave
  two talks in Brazil about the <a
    href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">PDFreaders campaign</a> to motivate 
    people to fix bugs in Latin America, and our UK
  coordinator Sam Tuke is organising a PDFreaders bug hunt in Manchester. If
  you live around, join other Free Software advocates on Saturday, August 13,
  between 15.00-17.30 at <a
    href="http://madlab.org.uk/content/stamp-out-the-ads-free-software-pdf-reader-sprint/">MadLab
    hackerspace</a> to find and remove UK Government adverts for non-Free PDF
  Readers. Cake and Pizza provided!</li>

  <li>New German Free Software Business Association: Lisog (124 members) and
  LIVE Linux-Verband (103 members) now <a
    href="http://www.linux-verband.de/news/detail/opensource/pressemitteilung/">merged
    into the Open Source Business Alliance (OSBA)</a> (German).</li>

   <li>FSFE will take part at the Desktop Summit, a joint conference organised
   by the GNOME and KDE communities in Berlin, Germany, 6 - 12 August 2011 at
   the Humboldt University. Our president Karsten Gerloff will give a talk on
   <a
     href="https://www.desktopsummit.org/program/sessions/free-desktops-europes-public-sector">"Free
     desktops for Europe's public sector"</a> and Bernhard Reiter will talk
   about <a
     href="https://www.desktopsummit.org/program/sessions/daily-melee-paid-people-within-free-software-initiatives-how-they-tick-how-keep-the">"Daily
     Melee: paid people within Free Software initiatives - How they tick, how
     to keep them and the art of behaving if you are one"</a>. (All events are
   available on <a href="/events/events.html">our event page</a> and in the <a
     href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/FellowshipEvents">Fellowship calendar</a>.</li>
 
  <li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>

    <li>CERN launched its Open Hardware License 1.1 and Open Hardware
    Repository. IBM promised to give its Lotus Symphony source code to the
    Apache Foundation, and W3C wants to invalidate Apple's Widget software
    patents. Read the legal news from <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/250">27.6.-3.7.</a> <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/251">4.7.-10.7.</a>, and <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/?q=node/252">11.7.-18.7.</a>.</li>

    <li><a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/bjg/2011/07/gnu-hackers-meeting-in-paris-25-28-august-2011/">Brian
      Gough has announced the GNU Hackers meeting</a> which will take place on
    25. August – 28. August in Paris. There are about 45 GNU maintainers
    and contributors registered so far and speakers include Jim Meyering,
    Stefano Zacchiroli, and Jim Blandy.</li>

    <li>Why are students developing Free Software for the public sector? Read
    <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2011/07/students-developing-free-software-for-the-public-sector/">in
      Guido Arnold's weblog</a> how students get involved in Free
    Software.</li>

  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: Read and distribute "crime story"</h2>

<p><a
    href="http://www.npr.org/blogs/money/2011/07/22/138576167/when-patents-attack">"When
    patents attack"</a> is a good story from investigative journalists on
  software patents, which reads like a crime story. Your editor recommends you
  to read it so you have good arguments in future. If you like it, distribute
  the article among your colleagues and friends.</p>

<p>Regards,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
