<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2018-07-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - July 2013</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - July 2013</h1>

<h2>In Court: Defending our Freedoms with Copyleft</h2>

<blockquote><p>"To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying
  you these rights or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have
  certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you
  modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of
  others." (Praemble of the GNU GPL)</p></blockquote>

<p>Unfortunately sometimes companies forget their responsibility when using
Free Software in their products. Someone has got to make sure to remind the
companies from time to time. That's what we do with our compliance work. After
our volunteers found a GNU GPL violation in a workshop in May 2012, we handed
all the evidence to Harald Welte from <a
  href="http://gpl-violations.org">gpl-violations.org</a> and his lawyers. They
processed the case and <a href="/news/2013/news-20130626-01.html">we were now
  informed that we won the case</a>.</p>

<h2>EU's public bodies wasting 1.1 billion Euro every year</h2>

<p>This month the European Commission published a Communication titled <a
  href="http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-13-602_en.htm?locale=en">
  "Against lock-in"</a> (see the <a
  href="https://fsfe.org/news/2013/news-20130625-02.en.html">FSFE's
  comment</a>. The European Commission urges public bodies to break free from
vendor lock-in in their IT systems by relying on standards rather than brand
names and proprietary technology. Besides the Communication highlights that
public bodies unnecessarily spend 1.1 billion Euro every year because they do
not allow more competition among their suppliers. The Commission cites studies
saying that 16% of public procurement make reference to brand names.  In most
of the cases those brand names are the names of non-free software
companies.</p>

<p>Implementing Open Standard policies is hard work but is necessary to ensure
that Free Software companies can compete on an equal basis. We <a
  href="/news/2010/news-20101207-01.html">criticised the EC before</a> and will
continue to remind them that Open Standard policies only have value if they are
really implemented.</p>

<h2>NSA: 24 hours video surveillance with Xbox One?</h2>

<p>Faced with user protests, Microsoft has been forced to make the terms for
its latest Xbox gaming console look a little less restrictive. However, the
“new” terms which had caused such outrage were not in fact new at all: they
were similar to most other proprietary software licences, including those
covering other Microsoft software products and on-line services. <a
  href="/news/2013/news-20130620-02.html">Anna Morris created a graphic about
  it</a>.</p> 

<p>Also on surveillance: twelve years ago the European Parliament called upon
the Commission and public bodies across Europe to help citizens and companies
protect themselves from surveillance. Free Software played a crucial part
there. Unfortunately <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2013/06/26/european-parliament-calls-for-action-against-surveillance/">the
  EC did not implement them</a>.</p>

<p>After the leaks from intelligence services, some of your friends might now
understand much better what you talked about when you explained them why you do
not use Skype, Facebook, Xbox One, or others. They might now understand why it
is important <a
  href="/campaigns/generalpurposecomputing/secure-boot-analysis.html">to be in
  control of your device</a> and your data. Erik Albers <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/eal/2013/06/18/about-ownership-remote-control-and-privacy/">wrote
  an article about ownership, remote control and privacy</a>, and in connection
with Xbox One ask how many people would visit a home when there would be a
sticker saying “This flat is under 24h surveillance by Microsoft and the
NSA”.</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>Together <a href="/news/2013/news-20130620-01.html">with Turkish Free
    Software activists FSFE wrote an Open Letter to Turkish President
    Erdogan</a> about a contract for more than 10 million new tablet
  computers.</li>

  <li>FSFE continue to <a href="/news/2013/news-20130611-01.html">monitor how
    you can file taxes without non-free software in Slovakia</a>.  </li>

  <li>Founder of GNU and the president of the Free Software Foundation, <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/richard-stallman-becomes-a-hall-of-famer">
    Richard Stallman was inducted into the 2013 Internet Hall of Fame!</a> His
  comment: "Now that we have made the Internet work, the next task is to stop it
  from being a platform for massive surveillance, and make it work in a way
  that respects human rights, including privacy." </li>

  <li><a href="/events/events.html">Events</a>: On 8th and 9th of June 2013 the
  Vienna fellowship group of the FSFE organised an information booth at the
  Austrian vegan society’s summer festival with 9000 people visiting the
  festival. <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/tobias_platen/2013/06/18/back-from-fuxcon/">Tobias
    Platen</a> and <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2013/06/fuxcon-bericht-vom-ersten-usergroup-treffen-in-frankfurt/">Guido
    Arnold</a> were at an FSFE booth at Fuxcon in Frankfurt, while next month
  we will be with several activities at <a
    href="/events/2013/rmll-2-2013.html">RMLL in Brussels</a>, <a
    href="http://matija.suklje.name/i-m-going-to-akademy-2013-and-will-talk-about-the-fla">Matija
    Šuklje will talk at aKademy</a> in Bilbao, and Sam Tuke will give a talk at
  the <a href="http://conference.opensuse.org/">OpenSUSE conference</a> in
  Thessaloniki.</li>

  <li>After having three meetings in 2013 now there was the <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/agger/2013/06/25/fellowship-meetings-in-aarhus-resumed/">second
    Fellowship meeting this year in Aarhus (Denmark)</a>. From now on they plan
  to have monthly meetings.</li>

  <li><a href="http://www.groklaw.net/article.php?story=2013061516065416">SCO
    scolding again</a>: the case SCO vs IBM will be opened. Judging from the
  past we can expect SCO spreading fear, uncertainty, and doubt about Free
  Software in the coming months again.</li>

  <li>And after the NSA leaks the journalist Glyn Moody asks <a
    href="http://blogs.computerworlduk.com/open-enterprise/2013/06/how-can-any-company-ever-trust-microsoft-again/index.htm">
    how any company can ever trust Microsoft again?</a></li>

  <li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>

    <li>Our intern Lucile <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2013/06/26/death-and-resurrection-of-free-software-in-french-schools/">reports</a>
    that on June 25 the French Senate voted the final version of the law on
    education, accepting a governmental amendment weakening the bill's Free
    Software provision. Following April's call for action (FR), she spent the
    whole morning calling and writing emails from the FSFE office to members of
    this commission. Beside she looked at <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2013/06/18/june-in-france/">what
      other Free Software news we had in France during July</a>.</li>

    <li>The number of mobile web users is already at 1.5 billion, which happens
    to be quite close to the total number of Internet users back in 2009. Read
    Henri Bergius' <a href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/mobile-first-web/">the
      mobile-first web</a>.</li>

    <li>From a conference in Romania Karsten Gerloff <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2013/06/01/quick-list-problems-for-free-software-in-romania/">created
      a quick list about problems for Free Software in Romania</a> and reports
    about his problems with <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2013/06/07/friday-folly-ep-requires-proprietary-software-to-register-for-workshop/">registering
      with Free Software for a workshop in the European Parliament</a>.</li>

    <li>Paul Boddie was actively writing last month. He argued that <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=192">standards are used as the
      ultimate excuse for not doing one's work</a>, </li>

    <li>He also <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=228">wrote an
      evaluation about Kolab</a> and in a follow-up blog post he wrote about
      the <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=283">resource
      autocompletion in the webmailer roundcube</a>.</li>

    <li>His article <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=104">"Where Now
      for the Free Software Desktop?"</a> takes us on a journey of GNU/Linux on
    the desktop. Paul concludes that "once we have shown that we can work
    together and act on all of [the mentioned challenges] simultaneously and
    continuously as a community, maybe then it will become clear that the year
    of the Linux desktop has at last arrived for good."</li>

    <li>And finally he analyses <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=199">site licences and volume
      licensing</a> and who the real loser of those schemes is.</li>

    <li>How can you avoid the Microsoft tax when buying a new laptop? Kevin
    Keijzer documented some tips and tricks on <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/the_unconventional/2013/06/12/avoiding-the-microsoft-tax/">how
      to buy a new laptop</a> which is a nice follow-up on last months <a
      href="http://seravo.fi/2013/dell-xps-13-ubuntu-edition-first-impressions">test
      of a preinstalled GNU/Linux laptop from Dell</a>. Help us in <a
      href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Hardware%20for%20Free%20Software">gathering more
      information on laptops without Microsoft tax in our wiki</a>.</li>

    <li>Daniel Pocock looks into the question if you <a
      href="http://danielpocock.com/rsa-key-sizes-2048-or-4096-bits"> should I
      use a 2048 bits or 4096 bits</a>, <a
      href="http://danielpocock.com/the-gold-standard-in-free-communications-technology">looked
      into principles for free communications</a>, <a
      href="http://danielpocock.com/wrong-cloud-nec-ultranet-victoria">vendor
      lock-in in Australian schools</a>, and wrote about <a
      href="http://danielpocock.com/girls-around-me-and-the-nsa">Girls Around
      Me and the NSA</a>.</li>

    <li>Anna Morris wrote several howtos: e.g. <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/anna.morris/2013/06/05/cutting-out-a-photo-and-removing-white-edges-in-gimp/">how
      to cut out a photo and removing the white edges in GIMP</a> or <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/anna.morris/2013/06/06/how-to-stay-in-the-html5-trail-when-you-clear-your-cookies/">how
      to to stay in the Google's HTML5 trial</a> when you clear your
    cookies.</li>

    <li>Sergey Matveev critisised current GNU/Linux distributions and wrote about
    <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stargrave/archives/93">why he will switch
      back to *BSD</a>. Related to that Hannes Hauswedell is searching for <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2013/06/02/a-kiss-gnulinux-distro/">a
      KISS GNU/Linux distro</a>.</li>

    <li>Beside Hannes is also <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2013/06/17/a-good-way-to-publish-photos-copyleft/">
      looking for a good way to publish Photos copyleft</a>.</li>

    <li>Sam Tuke writes about <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=548">how to compile the Free
      Software audio program Ardour from its source code</a> in this
    tutorial.</li>

    <li>Your editor <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1040">set the search
      engine duckduckgo as default in the awesome window manager</a>.</li>

    <li>Finally Matija gives some tips for your daily life: he describes <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/why-and-how-to-shave-with-shaving-oil-and-de-safety-razors">why
      and how to shave with shaving oil and DE safety razors</a>.</li>

  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: Post us Good Free Software News</h2>

<p>Often the news we spread contain negative developments, topics where we need
attention to fix a problem. Fellow Chris "cw" wants to pay more attention to
the good news about Free Software. The idea is to publish good news on <a
  href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/GoodFreeSoftwareNews">a dedicated wiki page</a>.</p>

<p>E.g. this month a city in Portugal <a
  href="http://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/ten-years-open-source-portuguese-town-proves-savings-and-performance">wrote
  about their success with Free Software</a> and Italy's <a
  href="http://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/italys-south-tyrol-starts-three-year-libreoffice-migration">South
  Tyrol starts three-year LibreOffice migration</a>.</p>

<p>You can either publish them there on your own, distribute the news with the
hashtag #GoodFreeSoftwareNews, or <a href="mailto:cw@fsfe.org">send Chris an
  e-mail with the news</a>, and he act as your proxy.</p>


<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date: 2011-06-06 12:32:19 +0200 (Mon, 06 Jun 2011) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
