<html newsdate="2017-09-12" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - September 2016</title>
	</head>
	<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201609">
		
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - September 2016</h1>

<h2 id="words-from-your-editors">Words from your editors</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">
Thank you for contributing to making the FSFE Summit 
this past weekend a huge success! We were excited to see so many
familiar faces and we're eager to meet again soon. Of course, the
FSFE Summit was not the only thing going on in the past month. In this
newsletter you can read about our community's other activities.
In the October newsletter, we will share more
of what happened at the Summit. Stay tuned for more!
</p>

<h2 id="the-fsfes-15-years">The FSFE's 15 years</h2>
<p>
This year we are celebrating our <a href="/campaigns/15years/">15th
anniversary</a> and the culmination
of the official celebration took place during the FSFE Summit from the
2nd to the 4th of September. But this celebration should continue throughout the year: let us
use the coming weeks and months to highlight 15 years of our 
existence, and use this opportunity to spread the word about free
software and our work. Let us highlight our biggest
achievements, recall personal stories and share them through blog posts,
social media, mailing lists, chats and in other ways.
</p>
<p>
In order to get some inspiration about how you can contribute, you are
welcome to visit <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events/2016/FSFE-15years-birthday/spread-the-word">our
wiki page</a> in which you will find examples and help to contribute. Some of the
work we have carried out in the last 15 years is also available on the
revised FSFE <a href="/timeline/timeline">timeline</a>.
</p>
<p>
One of our recent accomplishments has been the creation of our
<a href="/campaigns/15years/15years">FSFE video</a> to commemorate our
birthday. This video has subtitles in no less than 12
languages, thanks to our amazing volunteer translators.
Check out our new 15th anniversary sticker, which you can
order from us to help <a href="/contribute/spreadtheword">spread the
word</a>, not only for yourself.
</p>

<h2 id="from-the-community">From the community</h2>

<ul>
<li>Thanks to our translators (mentioned now for
the second time in this newsletter!), we are able to reach a wide
multilingual audience! The help of our translators is crucial to our
outreach. French translator Julien Pivotto has
improved the existing translation process to be more efficient and
accessible. He has written a proposal to change the <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/Translations">principal concept behind the
process</a>. Cryptie and
André Ockers held a session about this <a href="https://conf.qtcon.org/en/qtcon/public/events/757">during the
summit</a>.</li>

<li>Paul Boddie <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=1314">blogged
about the EOMA68 Campaign and some of its criticisms</a>. The EOMA68
campaign later succeeded in its fundraising and will now be put in
production.</li>

<li>André Ockers also <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ao/2016/08/13/free-software-pdf-campaign-it-isnt-over-until-it-is-over/">convinced Dutch authorities to remove ads for a
non-free PDF reader</a>
from the official website Digid.nl used to access most of the public
services in Netherlands. </li>

<li>Matthias Kirschner blogged about a way to <a href="https://k7r.eu/setting-up-a-slightly-more-secure-solution-for-home-banking">set up a slightly more secure solution for home
banking</a>,
letting the browser you use for banking run separately from your other
browser. In a separate post, he also wrote <a href="https://k7r.eu/free-software-in-the-berlin-election-programs/">an
overview of the positive aspects</a> of Free Software included in 
parties' positions, for the forthcoming Berlin elections.</li>

<li>Jonas Öberg wrote about the FSFE's group registration with IRC
network Freenode, which makes it possible to <a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/irc-cloaks-on-freenode-available/">request
FSFE affiliated cloaks</a>.
He also wrote about his <a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/the-woes-of-webvtt/">experience getting
subtitles to work with our FSFE video using WebVTT</a>.</li>

</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li><a href="/news/2016/news-20160817-01">The FSFE joined the Advisory
board of the Document Foundation, whilst the Document Foundation became
an associated organisation of the FSFE</a>. With this mutual expression
of support, both organisations will strengthen one another in their common
goal to keep the general public in the technological driver's
seat.</li>

<li>Erik Grun and Erik Albers aligned in the name of the FSFE with several
other organisations to run a <a href="/campaigns/ayc">Ask your
candidates campaign</a> called "Wahlprüfsteine". Questions have been
sent to most parties in the upcoming elections in
<a href="/news/2016/news-20160823-01">Mecklenburg Vorpommern</a>
and <a href="/news/2016/news-20160831-01">Berlin</a>.
Their responses have been analysed and published 
for the voting public.</li>

<li>Since August 1st, thanks to <a href="/news/2016/news-20160725-01">a
new German law</a>, if you are the client of a German internet provider,
you have the right to use an alternative router, ideally one
running Free Software. Please provide us feedback whether you had any
issues running a new router and help us to collect it in our
<a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/CompulsoryRouters/Implementation/Germany">wiki page</a>.
In case you don't have an alternative device at hand, the FSFE's German
Coordinator Max Mehl has already <a href="https://blog.mehl.mx/2016/erste-testgeraete-fuer-routerfreiheit-versendet/">sent the first Free Software routers to volunteers</a>
for testing and we can provide more. </li>

<li>The FSFE was present at FrOSCon 2016 in Sankt Augustin, where our
Policy Analyst and Legal Coordinator Polina Malaja gave a talk about
<a href="https://programm.froscon.de/2016/events/1797.html">"DSM, EIF,
RED: Acronyms on the EU level and why they matter for software
freedom"</a> (in English), and the German Coordinator Max Mehl gave talk about
<a href="https://programm.froscon.de/2016/events/1738.html">"Routerzwang
und Funkabschottung – Was Aktivisten davon lernen können"</a> (in
German). Max <a href="https://blog.mehl.mx/2016/froscon-2016-ein-rueckblick/">blogged about
his conference experience and included links to recordings of both
talks</a>.</li>

</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take action!</h2>
For our 15 year anniversary (there's a lot of this this month, as you
can tell), we are organising the <a href="/campaigns/15years/15years">"Get
to know your Local Free Software Hero" campaign</a>. The idea
is to bring our community members in touch with the local press in the
region where they live. Our local heroes explain how the Free Software
community affects the people in their region, its benefits for
education, health system, local economy and the daily life of the
citizens. If you are a journalist, blogger, vlogger, podcaster, or
anyone else who can help us to get in touch with a media outlet,
please contact us and we will tell you who your local heroes are and
how to meet them.

<h2 id="other-free-software-news">Other Free Software news</h2>

The Lithuanian police <a href="https://itsfoss.com/lithuanian-police-switches-libreoffice/">migrated
over 8000 workstations from Microsoft Office to LibreOffice</a>. The
Dutch government in its Digital Agenda for 2016-2017 is considering
<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/epractice/news/dutch-consider-mandatory-egovernment-standards">making the use of Open Standards mandatory
for public administrations</a>, within the aim of providing businesses and
citizens with easier access to eGovernment services. The city of
Valencia (Spain) is <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/spain%E2%80%99s-valencia-reuses-greek-pc-lab-software">reusing Epoptes</a>,
a software for managing school PC labs, developed as free software in
Greece since 2008. The software is improved by staff members of the
city’s IT department, who share their code publicly.

<h2 id="fsfe-in-the-press">The FSFE in the Press</h2>

In light of its 15th anniversary, the FSFE received press coverage
concerning a number of topics. Here are some of these articles for
further reading:

<ul>
 <li>[EN] by William New, Matthias was quoted by an Intellectual Property
Watch article about how the <a href="http://www.ip-watch.org/2016/08/22/new-us-government-source-code-policy-could-provide-model-for-europe/">New US Government Source Code Policy Could
Provide Model For Europe</a>.</li>

<li>[IT] [EN] by Sonia Montegiove, Tech Economy, <a href="http://www.techeconomy.it/2016/08/18/sostegno-alla-liberta-digitale-fsfe-intervista-doppia-matthias-kircker-alessandro-rubini/?platform=hootsuite">Support to the digital
freedom with FSFE: a double interview with Matthias Kirschner and
Alessandro Rubini</a>.</li>

<li>[DE] [AT] by Patrick Dax, Future zone, 
<a href="https://futurezone.at/netzpolitik/bedenken-gegen-einschraenkung-alternativer-router-software/216.155.897">Concerns regarding the limitation of
alternative router software</a>.  In the article, there is a reference
to the FSFE's campaign against compulsory routers.</li>

<li>[EN] by Paul Brown, opensource.com, <a href="https://opensource.com/life/16/8/fsfe-summit-europe-2016?sc_cid=701600000011jJVAAY">First ever FSFE Summit celebrates free software
successes</a>.</li>

<li>[DE] by Hans-Joachim Baader, pro-linux.de, <a href="http://www.pro-linux.de/news/1/23900/fsfe-vergleicht-parteipositionen-zu-freier-software-f%C3%BCr-wahl-in-mecklenburg.html">The FSFE compares the
positions of the parties regarding Free Software for the elections in
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern</a>.</li>

<li>[DE] by Mirko Lindner, pro-linux.de, <a href="http://www.pro-linux.de/news/1/23878/fsfe-und-tdf-arbeiten-enger-zusammen.html">FSFE
und TDF arbeiten enger zusammen</a>.</li>

<li>[EN] by Paul Brown, LiNUX.com, <a href="https://www.linux.com/news/first-fsfe-summit-will-focus-social-issues-and-strategies">First FSFE Summit Will Focus on Social Issues and
Strategies</a>.</li>

<li>[DE] by Jan Raehm, Deutschlandfunk, <a href="http://www.deutschlandfunk.de/computer-programme-ohne-zwaenge-kampf-um-freie-software.684.de.html?dram:article_id=364243">Computer programs without
constraints - the battle for free software</a>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.en.html">volunteers</a>, 

<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and <a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus.en.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,</p>

<p>your editors Polina Malaja, Erik Albers, Olga Gkotsopoulou and
Jonas Öberg, <a href="https://fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

</body>
<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2016-09"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>
</html>
