<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2014-08-04" type="newsletter">

<head>
  	<title>FSFE Newsletter - August 2014</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201408">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – August 2014</h1>
	<div class="e-content">
	
	<h2>Privilege and Power</h2>

	<p>
		In the olden days a common citizen of a republic going about their
		everyday business was quite, shall we say, free. While tending to their
		chores they would occasionally need a new tool or some advice, but the
		old Latin proverb <em>scientia potentia est</em> dictated the limits of
		their freedom to be the limits of their knowledge: if they needed a new
		tool and lacked the knowledge to make it, they became dependent on the
		toolmaker only to obtain the tool.
	</p>

	<p>
		In the brave new world it is different: not only do we depend on the
		toolmaker when we wish to obtain a new tool, but oft we remain dependent
		on them forever after. In the olden days a hammer could be used both to
		put stakes in the ground (or vampires) and nail planks atop the
		vampire's coffin. Today, the customer buying a general purpose tool has
		to pay twice for it: once to put stakes in the vampire and then again to
		nail planks atop its coffin.
	</p>
	
	<p>
		This is great if you happen to be one of the few toolmakers: not only
		are they one of the few privileged to be in control of their
		own property, but they have also stripped the rest of us of our rights
		and have the power to command our tools and hence have the power over
		us. Unfortunately, the privilege blinds them to the situation's
		revoltingness.
	</p>

	<p>
		Times have not been kind and, in addition to the revolting consequences
		of failed regulations and cold, unjust, profit-oriented business logic,
		we have been treated with a revelation after a revelation of agencies
		and offices founded to protect us, and subsequently given an impossible
		mission, preying on us. These developments, while despicable, can at
		least be rationally understood.
	</p>

	<p>
		However, it cannot be rationally comprehended why our <em>democratically
		elected representatives</em> would seek to entrench these unfortunate
		encroaches on our rights, on their own rights. Yet many of them do: the
		European Commission is
		<a href="/news/2014/news-20140708-01.html">refusing to break Microsoft's stranglehold on the EU</a>
		and, as an even more deeply unsettling development, the Communications
		Committee of the UK parliament's House of Lords
		<a href="http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/ld201415/ldselect/ldcomuni/37/3704.htm#a14">has proposed to end anonymity on the Internet</a>.
	</p>

	<p>
		If the danger to privacy and freedom were not so grave, the latter's
		technical ineptitude and arguments utterly unsuitable to the birthplace
		of liberalism would be highly amusing. Yet the danger posed by people
		who have been corrupted by power or greed is real and our resolve to
		confront that danger with more decentralization, security, privacy, and
		anonymity must become ever greater.
	</p>

	<h2>We are all Targets</h2>

	<p>
		According to
		<a href="http://www.wired.com/2014/07/nsa-targets-users-of-privacy-services/">new revelations</a>
		from early July pretty much anyone in the technological community is a
		target for surveillance. Among other activities we have been, or will
		be picked out, for visiting the
		<a href="https://www.torproject.org/">Tor website</a>, reading the
		<a href="http://www.linuxjournal.com/">Linux Journal</a>, connecting to
		<a href="http://mixminion.net/">Mixminion anonymous remailer service</a>,
		and downloading <a href="https://tails.boum.org/">Tails</a>, a
		privacy-sensitive GNU/Linux distribution. These sobering facts ought to
		be remembered every hour, every day. In the end our greatest weapon is
		developing and promoting projects that will one they land people
		interested in them on that very same list.
	</p>

	<h2>Something Completely Different</h2>

	<ul>
		<li>
			FSFE will have a booth at
			<a href="https://www.froscon.de/en/home/">FrOSCon</a>, where our Vice
			President <a href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.html">Matthias Kirschner</a>
			will also give a
			<a href="http://programm.froscon.de/2014/events/1321.html">talk</a>
			on the demise of a general purpose computer.
		</li>
		<li>
			Our President <a href="/about/gerloff/gerloff.html">Karsten Gerloff</a>
			writes about <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2014/07/03/evaluating-free-software-for-procurement/">evaluating Free Software for procurement</a>.
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="/about/roy/roy.html">Hugo Roy</a>, our Deputy Legal
			Coordinator writes about
			<a href="http://hroy.eu/posts/intro-defpubs/">defensive publications and his work for the Open Invention network</a> at his blog.
		</li>
		<li>
			Matthias writes at his Fellowship blog about
			<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/an-invisible-part-of-the-free-software-foundation-europe/">the invisible tasks</a>
			that are being attended to by
			<a href="/about/mueller/mueller.html">Reinhard Müller</a>, our
			Financial Officer.
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="/about/arnold/arnold.html">Guido Arnold</a>, our Education
			Team Coordinator, has finished composing his collection of
			<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/07/free-software-in-education-news-june/">Free Software in Education News for June</a>.
		</li>
		<li>
			From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/">planet aggregation:</a>
			<ul>
				<li>
					Kevin Keijzer writes about
					<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/the_unconventional/2014/07/17/watching-dvb-t-without-a-tv/">receiving TV using a DVB-T USB dongle</a>. For our
					more adventurous readers we suggest tuning the receiver to
					1090 MHz and obtaining an overview of the local civilian air air
					traffic as reported by ADS-B transmitters on the aircraft.
				</li>
				<li>
					Sergey Matveev reports on
					<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/stargrave/archives/122">the GoVPN daemon</a>
					he wrote in the Go programming language.
				</li>
			</ul>
		</li>
	</ul>

	<h2>Get Active!</h2>

	<ol>
		<li>
			Use and spread the word about
			<a href="https://www.gnupg.org/">GnuPG</a>,
			<a href="https://otr.cypherpunks.ca/">Off-the-Record messaging</a>,
			<a href="https://www.torproject.org/">Tor</a>,
			<a href="https://code.google.com/p/cryptsetup/">cryptsetup</a>,
			<a href="https://www.eff.org/https-everywhere">HTTPS Everywhere</a>,
			<a href="https://www.eff.org/privacybadger">Privacy Badger</a>
			and other privacy-enhancing Free Software.
		</li>
		<li>
			If you can write code and understand a bit of computer science,
			find a cool privacy-or-anonymity-enhancing concept in a scientific
			journal and make it come alive.
		</li>
	</ol>

	<p>
		We thank all our <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>,
		<a href="fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a>, and
		<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who make our efforts
		possible,<br />
		<a href="/about/ojasild/ojasild.html">Heiki Ojasild</a> –
		<a href="www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a>
	</p>

	</div>
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe">
	<h3>FSFE News</h3>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="/news/">Press Releases</a></li>
		<li><a href="/news/newsletter.html">Newsletters Archive</a></li>
		<li><a href="/events/">Upcoming Events</a></li>
		<li><a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/">Planet Blogs</a></li>
		<li><a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a></li>
	</ul>
</sidebar>

<author id="ojasild" />
<date>
	<original content="2014-08-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
