<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-03-20" type="newsletter">
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE Newsletter - March 2018</title>
  </head>
  <body microformats="h-entry">

    <h1 id="fsfe-newsletter-march-2018">FSFE Newsletter March 2018</h1>
	
    <h2 id="italy-at-the-forefront-of-european-legislation-for-public-code">
      Italy at the forefront of European legislation for public code</h2>
    
    <p>With the FSFE&apos;s <a href="https://publiccode.eu">
      Public Money? Public Code!</a> campaign not only do we demand that code
      paid for by the people should be available to the people. We also
      highlight good examples of public code so other decision makers can learn
      from it. One very good example is
      <a href="http://www.agid.gov.it/cad/art-68-analisi-comparativa-soluzioni">
      Article 68</a> and
      <a href="http://www.agid.gov.it/cad/art-69-riuso-soluzioni-standard-aperti">
      Article 69</a> of the &quot;Codice Amministrazione Digitale&quot;, an
      Italian law requiring public administrations inside Italy to prefer
      internally made solutions and Free Software solutions over proprietary
      ones. In addition, these administrations have the duty to share the source
      code and documentation of any software developed with public money.
      These laws put Italy at the forefront of European legislation in favour of
      public code.</p>

    <p>Unfortunately, so far the law lacks proper implementation. In that light,
      the FSFE&apos;s country team in Italy ran an
      <a href="/campaigns/askyourcandidates/askyourcandidates">
      Ask Your Candidates campaign</a> in which they
      <a href="/news/2018/news-20180219-01">asked the political
      parties about their stand on Free Software</a> and the implementation of
      the aforementioned Articles 68 and 69 after the national elections on
      March 4.</p>

    <p>FSFE Italy received very positive replies and many parties
      <a href="/news/2018/news-20180302-01.html">took a
      favourable stand towards Free Software</a>. Such a big consensus across
      these parties gives hope to open up a lot of possibilities for progress
      towards the use of Free Software at the state level in Italy and a better
      implementation of Articles 68 and 69 of the &quot;Codice Amministrazione
      Digitale&quot;. As a match to this, the team &quot;Developers
      Italia&quot;, who are in charge of further implementation of the Articles
      68 and 69,
      <a href="https://twitter.com/developersITA/status/964060999899860992">sent
      out their love for Free Software</a> on I love Free Software day.</p>

    <h2 id="read-our-detailed-ilovefs-report">Read our detailed IloveFS 
      report</h2>

    <p>As promised in the last newsletter, we now have a
      <a href="/news/2018/news-20180308-01">detailed report about our IloveFS
      campaign in 2018</a>. In the report, you will not only read about some
      highlights that happened for this year&apos;s IloveFS. Thanks to our
      current intern Jan, we also have an analysis and visualisation of 439
      &apos;I Love Free Software&apos; messsages containing the
      <em>&#35;IloveFS</em> hashtag. The scraper Jan used for his analysis is
      written in GNU R and <a href="https://git.fsfe.org/janwey/ilfs-data">
      published as Free Software</a>.</p>

    <p>While every year we are happy to see so many people celebrating I
      love Free Software day, we also encourage you to express your Free
      Software love every day :)</p>

    <hr />
    <p><a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate?referrer=nl2018-03">Join our community of freedom fighters.</a></p>
    <hr />

    <h2 id="what-else-have-we-done-inside-and-outside-the-fsfe">What else have
      we done? Inside and Outside the FSFE</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>Paul Boddie reflects on 
	<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=1978">the hobbyism and
	volunteerism attitude</a> in many Free Software projects and what
	this means for the valuation of the actual work that is done,
	examining Python language development as an example.</li>
      <li>Isabel Drost Fromm
	<a href="http://blog.isabel-drost-fromm.de/posts/proxies-considered-harmful.html">
	argues against people acting as mediators</a> as the only interface
	between their employer and a Free Software project.</li>
      <li>Carmen Bianca Bakker
	<a href="https://www.carmenbianca.eu/en/post/2018-03-09-how-we-conduct-ourselves/">
	reflects on the recently updated FreeBSD Code of Conduct</a>, examines
	the included dangers of positive discrimination, and states how
	a non-biased, welcoming Code of Conduct can indeed
	help dogs and cats to live happily ever after.</li>
      <li>Daniel Pocock
	<a href="https://danielpocock.com/swisspost-swissid-another-nail-in-the-coffin-sovereignty">
	reflects on the newly-introduced SwissID</a>, and its potential dangers
        to privacy and democratic referendums.</li>
      <li>Erik Albers asked our community on multiple channels to let
	the FSFE know about upcoming Free Software events in 2018 that are
	of interest to the FSFE community. Thanks to our current intern
	Vincent they all ended up in <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events">
	the FSFE&apos;s wiki calendar</a> so our teams and community can use
	them to organise their attendance.</li>
      <li>Björn Schießle, the FSFE&apos;s country coordinator Germany, gave a
	talk about
	<a href="https://www.schiessle.org/articles/2017/11/14/software-freedom-in-the-cloud/">
	software freedom in the cloud</a> at &quot;Chemnitzer
	Linuxtage&quot; in Chemnitz, Germany.</li>
      <li>Erik Albers was giving a
	<a href="https://platform.internetfreedomfestival.org/en/IFF2018/public/schedule/custom/478">
	talk about Public Money? Public Code!</a> at the Internet Freedom
	Festival in Valencia, Spain.</li>
      <li>The new born local FSFE group in Madrid had its first meeting on
	<a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events/2018/0222-encuentro-local-madrid">
	February 22</a> and
	<a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events/2018/0303-encuentro-grupo-local-madrid">
	March 3</a>.</li>
      <li>The FSFE has been present with a booth at &quot;Chemnitzer
	Linuxtage&quot; in Chemnitz (Germany), at T3chfest in Madrid
	(Spain), and at the Internet Freedom Festival in Valencia
	(Spain).</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 id="get-active">Get Active</h2>

    <p>If you have not done so yet, let us know your favorite Free Software
      event that you think is or should be in interest for the FSFE community to
      set up a booth at or participate in with a talk or workshop. The simplest
      way to do so is by sending a mail to <a href="mailto:contactATfsfeDOTorg">
      contact@fsfe.org</a> with the subject &quot;Free Software event
      2018&quot;. Please state what the event is about, how many participants
      are expected, and the main language used. Before informing us, please
      check if we do not already have it
      <a href="http://blog.3rik.cc/2018/03/free-software-events-in-europe-in-2018/">
      in our list</a>.</p>

    <p>If you are visiting any other events regularly or soon, be it a big
      conference or a local meet-up, equip yourself with some FSFE promotion
      material that you can <a href="/promo">order at no charge</a>.</p>

    <h2 id="contribute-to-our-newsletter">Contribute to our newsletter</h2>

    <p>If you would like to share any thoughts, pictures, or news, send them to
      us. As always, the address is <a href="mailto:newsletterATfsfeDOTorg">
      newsletter@fsfe.org</a>. We&#39;re looking forward to hearing from
      you!</p>

      <p>Thanks to our community, all the
	<a href="/contribute/contribute">volunteers</a>, <a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate">
	supporters</a> and <a href="/donate/thankgnus">donors</a> who make our
	work possible. And thanks to
	<a href="/contribute/translators/translators">our translators</a>, who
	enable you to read this newsletter in your mother tongue.</p>

      <p>Your editors, <br />
	Erik Albers and Max Mehl</p>

    <hr />
    <p><a href="https://my.fsfe.org/donate?referrer=nl2018-03">Join our community of freedom
      fighters.</a></p>
    <hr />

  </body>
  <sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
  <date>
    <original content="2018-03" />
  </date>
  <followup>donate</followup>
  <tags>
    <tag key="newsletter"/>
    <tag key="it">Italy</tag>
    <tag key="ilovefs">I love Free Software</tag>
    <tag key="ayc">Ask Your Candidates</tag>
    <tag key="pmpc">Public Code</tag>
  </tags>
  <author id="albers" />
  <author id="mehl" />
</html>
