<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-12-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - December 2011</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - December 2011</h1>

<h2>Your own web search - version 1.0</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">Who controls what you find on the internet? Search engines are a vital
connection between you and information. In the eyes of the FSFE, it is important that users can
be independent. That is why we spread awareness about the 1.0 release of YaCy,
a peer-to-peer search engine. Read about YaCy at
our <a href="/news/2011/news-20111128-01.html">press release</a>, <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/11/30/why-yacy-isnt-a-google-killer/">Karsten
  Gerloff's blog entry</a> or choose one of the <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/alessandro.polvani/2011/11/30/yacy-gets-an-extraordinary-press-coverage/">many
  news sites who wrote about it</a>, including Wall Street Journal, BBC News,
The Telegraph or TAZ.</p>

<h2>Dutch government hands over education's keys to Microsoft</h2>

<!-- First paragraph copied from
https://fsfe.org/news/2011/news-20111107-01.en.html -->
<p>The Dutch government wants to tie the country's schools to a single software
vendor for years to come. Dutch students using Free Software or devices without
support for Silverlight will find themselves locked out of schools' online systems
due to the use of proprietary technology and closed standards. Marja
Bijsterveldt, the secretary of education, recently said that she is unwilling
to enforce the Dutch government's own Open Standards policy on educational
institutions. Instead, the government will accept long-term vendor lock-in of
educational institutions.</p>

<p>With <a href="/campaigns/nledu/nledu.html">our campaign</a>, FSFE's
volunteers in the Netherlands <!-- starting from here it is the first paragraph
of https://fsfe.org/campaigns/nledu/nledu.en.html --> want to enable all
citizens to have free access to education and all other publicly-funded
institutions, both online and offline, by pushing for a mandatory use of Open
Standards and a guaranteed platform-independent access to all online
environments. This would allow students and their parents to use Free Software, and in
that way enable them to tap into their potential for growth and personal
development.</p>

<h2>Only the firealarm could end it</h2>

<p>It's been a good weekend for Free Software advocacy: by the 
<a href="http://blog.padowi.se/2011/11/14/fscons-2011/">end of FSCONS</a>, the FSFE led a dedicated <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=840">Free Software in Politics track</a>,
Richard Stallman gave a keynote, there were many other Free Software talks
(e.g.  read <a href="http://sny.no/2011/11/fscons-hacktivism.html">our
  webmaster's blog entry</a>), the FSFE staffed a booth both at FSCONS and at <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=359">the Open Rhein
  Ruhr (Germany)</a>, Erik Josefsson received the <a
  href="/news/2011/news-20111114-01.html">Nordic Free Software Award</a>, and
we had a <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=836">FSFE workshop</a> one day
before the conference. In the end it
was only possible to terminate FSCONS's social event with a fire alarm. (Your
editor still thinks this fire alarm is part of a bigger conspiracy.)</p>

<p>At the workshop before FSCONS, Sam Tuke organised the <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=836">second PDFreaders sprint</a> after <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=191">the one in the UK</a>. The 11
participants checked several websites from <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">our buglist</a>, and translated <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/letter.html">the form letter</a> and <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">the petition</a> into Swedish.
Special thanks to Daniel Melin, Henri Nordstrom, and Josef Andersson for
this!</p>

<p>Our current success rate: 511 out of 2081 (24%) reported public websites
have removed the non-free software advertisement. 1938 individuals, 58
organisations and 56 businesses have signed <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">the petition</a>.</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>The Regional Court of Berlin <a
    href="/news/2011/news-20111110-01.html">rejected AVM's claims opposing
    third party modifications of GNU GPL software</a>. <a
    href="http://gpl-violations.org">gpl-violations.org</a> and the FSFE welcome
  this decision. When we receive the reasoning of the court, we will inform you
  about it in <a href="/news/news.html">our news section</a>.  </li>

  <li>Together with six other civil society organisations, <a
    href="/news/2011/news-20111122-01.html">the FSFE has urged the Parliament</a>
  to make the ACTA committee session public, so that European citizens can form
  their own opinions on ACTA.</li>
 
  <li>Mirko Boehm has been involved with KDE since 1997 and was a board member
  of KDE e.V. from 1999 to 2006. This month Chris Woolfrey <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=477">talked with him
    for the Fellowship interview</a>.</li>

  <li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>
    
    <li>The legal news update from <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/hugo/2011/11/free-software-legal-news-weekly-november-1-6-2011/">November
      1–6</a>, and <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/hugo/2011/11/free-software-legal-news-weekly-november-7-13-2011/">November
      7–13</a> is presented by Hugo Roy and Martin Husovec.</li>

    <li>How many principles exist for good practice in the undergraduate
    education?  <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2011/11/seven-principles-for-good-practice-in-undergraduate-education/">Guido
      Arnold says there are seven</a>, just like in good fairy tales! Do you agree? Discuss it
    with <a href="/projects/education/education.html">our education
      team</a>.</li>

    <li>Karsten informs us about <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/10/28/free-software-policy-issues-at-linuxcon-europe/">the
      current Free Software policy issues</a>, which he presented at Linuxcon
    Europe.</li>

    <li>Are you interested in a 100% Free Software phone? And what phone do you
    use at the moment? Timo Jyrinki has an <a
      href="http://losca.blogspot.com/2011/11/on-discussing-free-software-mobile.html">
      interesting comment about free phones</a>.</li>

    <li>Erik Josefsson talked about Free
    Software tools for the European Parliament at FSCONS, now Karsten wrote about it <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/11/12/scraping-data-from-the-european-parliament/">in
      his blog</a>.</li>

    <li>You want to make your own panorama pictures during winter? <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mkesper/?p=148">Michael Kesper describes</a>
    how to do that. While visiting Michael's blog, you can also read <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mkesper/?p=145">how to install Debian the
      easy way</a>.</li>

    <li> <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/boukouvalas/?p=384"> Kostas Boukouvalas
      writes</a> about the development in his Greek Free Software group from
    2007–2011.</li>

    <li>Fellowship representative <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/hugo/2011/11/add-duck-duck-go-as-a-search-engine-in-gnome-shell/">Hugo
      Roy explains</a> how to add Duck Duck Go as a search engine in Gnome
    Shell.</li>

    <li>And <a
      href="http://autoverse.net/2011/08/05/open-web-apps-its-not-just-the-future-its-also-cool/">
      Nikos Roussos argues</a>: Free Software web applications are not not just
    the future, but they are also cool.</li>

  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: Ensure it is Secure Boot, not Restricted Boot!</h2>

<p>Microsoft has announced that if computer makers distribute machines with the
Windows 8 compatibility logo, they will have to implement a measure called
"Secure Boot." This measure is meant to increase security on your computer,
but we are very concerned that hardware manufacturers will implement these boot
restrictions in a way that will prevent you from booting any other operating
system than Microsoft Windows. That is why we ask you for help:</p>

<ul>
  
  <li>Participate in the translation of <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/campaigns/secure-boot-vs-restricted-boot/statement">this
    statement</a>. (<a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus/english/2011/11/15/estonian-translations-personal-experience-and-an-appeal-for-co-translators/">Heiki Ojasild
    gave some good reasons</a> why to join our <a
  href="/contribute/translators/">translators team</a>, but you can also just
send the translation to <a
  href="mailto:translators@fsfeurope.org">translators@fsfeurope.org</a>.)</li>

  <li>Sign <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/campaigns/secure-boot-vs-restricted-boot/statement">the
    statement</a> yourself, and ask your family, friends, colleagues to do the
  same.</li>

</ul>

<p>Currently 20,562 people have signed the statement, making it clear they want to have
the choice. We need more signatures to send a clear signal to hardware vendors that
they have to enable us to install Free Software on our
computers.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
