<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-09-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - September 2012</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - September 2012</h1>

<h2>Like in the 90s but with phones: First Free Your Android installation parties</h2>

<p>More and more people start using mobile phones with Android. But in
order to be in full control over your phone, you have to install another
Android firmware on them. To make this phone liberation easy we started the <a
  href="http://freeyourandroid.org">Free Your Android campaign</a>.</p>

<p newsteaser="yes">In the <a href="/news/nl/nl-201208.html">last newsletter
  edition</a> we asked you in our "Get active" section to help us with Free
Your Android installation parties, like the GNU/Linux installation parties
some years ago.  Thanks to all of you, who contacted us about it, and who
offered their help for the future.</p>

<p>This month some of us already started with those installation parties.
First, Torsten Grote taught Erik Albers and your editor how to free their
phones, which is <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=981">documented quick and
  dirty</a> on your editors weblog. Second, on August 26th, 13 people from
Austria, France, Germany, Slovenia, and Spain participated at FSFE's workshop.
To <a href="http://silkemeyer.net/workshop-free-your-android">summarise it in
  the words of Silke Meyer</a>, one of the trainers: "The workshop had two
goals: To help people install free software on their phones and to
develop/document some guidelines that trainers for such workshops could use."
Result: We liberated 4 phones, updated 3 to a newer version, documented what we
did including <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Android/Workshop">our internal
  workshop documentation</a>, and thought about stickers for liberated phones.
Beside <a href="http://silkemeyer.net/workshop-free-your-android">Silke's blog
  post</a>, there is also a <a
  href="http://abriraqui.net/2012/08/27/liberando-el-android-de-un-htc-desire/">Spanish
  article with instructions</a>, and <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1000">this article including some pictures
  of happy participants</a>.</p>

<p>We will have other Free Your Android workshops on 4th September in
Katowice/Poland, on 9th September Pristina/Kosovo, and on 15th September in
Berlin/Germany, Paris/France, and Ljubljana/Slovenia. The campaign team's goal
is also to make the update process easier. There is the Free Software "OTA
Update Center" which can achieve easy updates, but as Torsten <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2012/08/26/updating-custom-versions-of-android-easily/">explains,
  there are still some problems with it</a>. Perhaps you, or someone you know
can help with it?</p>


<h2>Standardisation Absurdity: Still No OOXML</h2>

<p>Office suites have one of the strongest network effects: it is often
difficult to use another word processor than Microsoft Word. If something does
not work, you as a Free Software user are blamed by the others when the
document exchange is not working. So one of the reasons, why we are <a
  href="/activities/os/os.html">promoting Open Standards</a> is to make it
possible for Free Software users to communicate with others, who are using
non-free software.</p>

<p>Because most decision-makers now understand, that <a
  href="/activities/os/def.html">Open Standards</a> are crucial for a fair
market, Microsoft pushed its own standard called Microsoft Office Open XML
(OOXML), claiming it is an Open Standard. FSFE <a
  href="/activities/os/msooxml-questions.html">questioned the ISO
  certification</a> starting in 2007, and when ISO approved it we <a
  href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2008q2/000206.html">were
  concerned about the quality of standardisation process</a>.</p>

<p>Recently Microsoft <a
  href="http://blogs.office.com/b/office-next/archive/2012/08/13/the-new-office-expands-file-format-options.aspx">announced</a>
that the next edition of Microsoft Office 2013, will support the OOXML document
standard. <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/08/16/microsoft-to-finally-support-ooxml-odf-1-2/">Karsten
  Gerloff is analysing</a> this public admission by Microsoft that they have
not implemented OOXML until now – despite everything their sales people have
apparently been telling clients in business and the public sector.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>Software patents and rounded rectangles: Samsung should pay more than a
  billion US dollars in damages for Apple. Karsten Gerloff takes a look <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/08/28/apple-vs-samsung-does-it-matter/">if
    this decision matters</a> (<a
    href="https://netzpolitik.org/2012/apple-vs-samsung-meilenstein-oder-schlagloch/">German
    version on netzpolitik</a>).</li>

  <li>Digital Restrictions Management: For the visitors of the Consumer
  Electronics Unlimited (IFA), FSFE's German team together with "Digitale
  Gesellschaft e.V." has published <a href="/news/2012/news-20120831-01.html">a
    German DRM booklet</a>, based on the <a
    href="http://www.edri.org/files/2012EDRiPapers/DRM.pdf">one we made
    together with EDRi (PDF)</a>. Our sister organisation <a
    href="http://www.defectivebydesign.org/node/2243">published a "DRM-Free"
    label</a>, and there are offers to get DRM-free ebooks and music in <a
    href="http://www.defectivebydesign.org/node/2244">pay-what-you-want
    bundles</a>!</li>
 
  <li>Wistleblower software published as Free Software: The weekly German
  newspaper <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=978">"Die Zeit" published a
    whistleblower program, as Free Software</a>. Now security experts have the
  opportunity to analyse the software, and improve it to provide good technology
  for more transparency.</li>

  <li>Free Software in your holiday destination: Joinup reports, that the <a
    href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/canary-islands-government-increasing-and-encouraging-open-source-use">
    Canary Islands' government is increasing and encouraging Free Software
    use</a>, especially for their telephone system and their office suite. They
  expect 25% reduction of non-free software license costs.</li>

   <li>Not directly connected with Free Software, but <a
     href="/news/2011/news-20110301-01.html">Fellowship representative</a> and
   former <a href="/contribute/internship.html">FSFE intern</a> Hugo Roy is all
   over the news with his project <a href="http://tos-dr.info/">"Terms of
     Service - Didn't Read"</a>, e.g.  <a
     href="http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2012-08/15/tos-dr-website">Wired</a>,
   <a
     href="http://techcrunch.com/2012/08/13/putting-an-end-to-the-biggest-lie-on-the-internet/">Techcrunch</a>,
   <a
     href="http://www.zeit.de/digital/internet/2012-08/terms-of-service-did-not-read">Die
     Zeit</a>, <a
     href="http://moneyland.time.com/2012/08/10/new-site-grades-those-pesky-terms-of-service-agreements-you-never-read/">Time</a>,
   <a
     href="http://www.stern.de/digital/online/datenschutz-projekt-die-agb-checker-1881991.html">Stern</a>,
   <a
     href="http://www.welt.de/print/welt_kompakt/webwelt/article108808811/Internet-Kompakt.html">Die
     Welt</a>, <a
     href="http://www.lemonde.fr/technologies/article/2012/08/14/un-site-veut-mettre-fin-au-mensonge-des-conditions-d-utilisation-sur-internet_1745942_651865.html">Le
     Monde</a>, and many more. Thanks Hugo for your good work!</li>
   
  <li>A selection from the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">Fellowship blog
    aggregation</a>:</li>

  <ul>

   <li>Clean Your Android: Mark Lindhout is writing about annoying phone
   problems.  This time it is fixed by <a
     href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/marklindhout/2012/08/htc-desire-hd-keeps-opening-the-locations-app-and-goes-to-speaker-during-phone-calls/">cleaning
     your micro USB port and headphone jack</a>, but this is not as simple as
   it sounds.</li>

  <li>Distributed Free Software: Bdale Garbee <a
    href="http://www.gag.com/bdale/blog/posts/FreedomBox_0.1.html">reports that
    Freedom Box 0.1 was released</a>, and <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=401">Sam Tuke wrote about Secure
    Share</a>, which aims to become an ultra-secure social network</li>

  <li>Are you still using paper maps, or are you using map programs on your
  phones (e.g.  OSMAnd+)? <a href="http://aligunduz.org/blog/?p=521">Ali
    Gündüz</a> loves old maps, and he wrote about his three old maps from 1764,
  1872, 1859.</li>

  <li>Fellow Number 1, <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mario/?p=181">Mario Fux
    informs you</a> about the donations for the Free Software meetings in
  Randa.  </li>

  <li>One of the rarely bloggers, Mr Rainer "Merchandise" Kersten, wrote <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/rainer/?p=37">a comment about competence, and
    digital dementia (German)</a>.</li>

  <li>On a more technical side: Werner Koch, author of GnuPG and GA member
  writes about <a
    href="http://rem.eifzilla.de/archives/2012/08/17/beta-release-numbering-with-git">beta
    release numbering with GIT</a>, and Myriam Schweingruber asked people to <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/myriam/2012/08/08/triagers-and-testers-needed/">participate
    in a kmail bugsprint</a> which took place on August 18th.</li>

  <li>Do you know <a href="http://www.nyan.cat/">Nyancat</a>? Your editor
  apologises, if you did not want to be reminded about it. But now there is a
  GNU version of it: the <a
    href="http://archive.org/details/M00GNU">MOOGNU</a>, and</li>

  <li>finally, if you are interested in playing ukulele, Guido Arnold, explains
  <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2012/07/how-i-tuned-my-ukulele/">how he
    tuned his ukulele using Free Software and Wikipedia</a>.</li>

  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get Active: Contribute to Free Software news!</h2>

<p>Your editor always tries to cover important and interesting news about FSFE
and Free Software. So shameless house advertising: if you read or hear interesting
Free Software news, please write an e-mail to <a
  href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.html">your editor</a>, with a short note why
this news is particularly interesting or important in your view.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date: 2011-06-06 12:32:19 +0200 (Mon, 06 Jun 2011) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
