<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html newsdate="2017-03-14" type="newsletter">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE Newsletter - March 2017</title>
  </head>
  <body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201703">

    <h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - March 2017</h1>

    <h2 id="the-chronicles-of-limux">The Chronicles of LiMux</h2>

    <p newsteaser="yes">In February, the news about LiMux shook the
    world. LiMux, a project run by the city of Munich and completed
    in 2013, constitutes one of the finest examples of
    vendor-neutral administration based on Free Software; during
    its execution phase, 15,000 personal computers and laptops used
    by public administrations were migrated to Free Software.</p>

    <p>In a surprise move, a coalition of parties filed a motion
    with minimal lead time before the city council, asking for the
    abolishment of the project and the return into proprietary
    solutions.</p>

    <p>The response by the community was immediate and formidable.
    FSFE's Deputy Coordinator for Germany, Björn Schießle, 
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170301-01">describes
    what followed</a>. An ad-hoc coalition was formed by the
    FSFE, the Document Foundation, KDE and OSBA, collecting
    questions around the motion and its related processes. Members
    of the city council were contacted prior to the public hearing
    and FSFE supporters in Germany and Austria were invited to
    engage, contacting politicians on the issue. 
    <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/LiMux">Media coverage
    in multiple languages</a> was additionally created</p>

    <p>During the public hearing, participating parties quoted some
    of our questions, and admitted they had never before
    received so much input from the public. The result of the
    hearing was a modified motion passed on February 15,
    calling the administration to propose a strategy for the
    unification of the city's client-side IT architecture by the
    end of 2020, building on a yet-to-be-developed proprietary
    client and guaranteeing maximal compatibility with the existing
    solutions.</p>

    <p>The FSFE does not claim LiMux has solved all the
    problems. However, we do claim these problems are mostly
    of organisational nature, and as such must be disconnected from
    the technical side. Public infrastructure must remain
    independent of single software vendors, and invest into common
    assets, which are provided by Free Software.</p>

    <hr />
    <p>Help us grow and make a difference in 2017
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/join/nl2017-03">
    https://fsfe.org/join</a></p>
    <hr />

    <h2 id="what-else-have-we-done?-inside-and-Outside-the-fsfe">
    What else have we done? Inside and Outside the FSFE</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>For #IloveFS, André <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/ao/2017/02/14/ilovefs-2017-vrije-software-lied/"> translated</a> the Free Software song.</li>

      <li>After last year's successful pre-FOSDEM meeting, the FSFE
      and OpenForum Europe continued the tradition of bringing
      together active Free Software stakeholders during a prior to
      FOSDEM public policy related event. 
      <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170214-02">This
      year's meeting</a> offered the opportunity to individual
      citizens and decision-makers to exchange their views on the
      basis of practical first-hand information concerning Free
      Software in public policy.</li>

      <li>For 16 years, FSFE has been present at FOSDEM with a booth,
      numerous volunteers and staff. Reinhard Müller, FOSDEM booth
      coordinator, 
      <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/reinhard/2017/02/fosdem-2017/">
      describes in his report</a> the great atmosphere among the
      booth volunteers and how an outstanding amount of merchandise
      and promotional material was distributed during the 2 days of
      the event.</li>

      <li><a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/713073/">In 2016, Europe
      welcomed three new umbrella organizations</a> for Free
      Software (and hardware) projects: Public Software CIC, The
      Commons Conservancy, and the Center for the Cultivation of
      Technology. Standing by the needs of the community, the
      brand-new organisations provide a legal entity for projects
      to join, with regards to donations, accounting, grants, legal
      compliance, or even sophisticated governance. These
      administrative services allow projects to focus on
      technical and community matters.</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 id="get-active">Get active</h2>

    <p>We're still able to accept additional student interns for
    2017. If you're currently studying and is required to do an
    internship as part of your studies, or if you've not yet
    graduated and want to do a voluntary internship, you should 
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170116-01">apply
    now</a>.</p>

    <h2 id="help-us-to-improve-our-newsletter">Help us to improve
    our newsletter</h2>

    <p>If you see some news you think should be included, forward
    it to us. If you'd like to share any thoughts, send them to us.
    The address is as always newsletter@fsfe.org. We're looking
    forward to hearing from you!</p>

    <p>Thanks to all
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.en.html">
    volunteers</a>, 
    <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join/nltr17">
    supporters</a> and 
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus.en.html">
    donors</a> who make our work possible.</p>
    <p>your editors Olga Gkotsopoulou and Jonas Öberg
    
    <a href="https://fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>
    <hr />
    <p>Help us grow and make a difference in 2017
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/join/nl2017-03">
    https://fsfe.org/join</a></p>
    <hr />
  </body>
  <sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
  <date>
    <original content="2017-03" />
  </date>
  <followup>donate</followup>
  <tags>
    <tag>newsletter</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
