<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-08-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - August 2012</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - August 2012</h1>

<!-- WHY HOW WHAT -->

<h2>Helping the European Parliament to release its own Free Software</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">For the first time, the European Parliament (EP) is about to release one of
its own programs as a Free Software. The program in question is called AT4AM,
short for "Automatic Tool for Amendments". The Parliament is making laws, and
AT4AM automates a lot of the formalities associated with the legislative
process.</p>

<p>Karsten Gerloff and Carlo Piana were invited to give talks at the event to
discuss the right license under which to publish AT4AM, and to explain the
political dimension of Free Software.</p>

<p>Do you want to know why the FSFE suggested the EP to license their software under
GNU AGPL version 3, and what else our president has on his wishlist for the EP?
Then read <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/07/18/helping-the-european-parliament-to-release-its-own-free-software/">his
  report</a>!</p>


<h2>Protect Free Software licenses from bankruptcy</h2>

<p>When the companies or authors that license Free Software enter bankruptcy,
there is a risk that granted Free Software licenses will face legal challenges
in some jurisdictions. The FSFE is trying to prevent this situation in Germany. We started talking about this during a meeting with the German Minister of Justice, who we could have meet thanks to <a href="/news/2010/news-20100510-01.html">receiving the
Theodor Heuss Medal</a>. Now the ifrOSS supported by the FSFE
suggests the German Ministry of Justice to <a
href="/news/2012/news-20120730-01.html">include a specific Free Software clause
in the German Insolvency Code</a>. The clause ensures that Free Software
licenses would not be negatively affected by a bankruptcy of a licensing rights
holder. It makes it clear that any offer to grant a Free Software license made
before the licensor's bankruptcy can be accepted by anyone even after the
bankruptcy proceedings started.</p>

<p>If Free Software face similar problems in your jurisdiction, please <a
  href="/contact/contact.html">contact us</a> or take similar steps.</p>


<h2>The Fellowship: One to rule them all</h2>

<p>In the Lord of the Rings, Gollum does not want to share the ring. He is such
an egoist. But Barbara "swimmi" Roth and Martin "gollo" Gollowitzer, both
Fellows of the FSFE are used to share (as well as use, study, and improve).</p>

<p>After <a href="https://xkcd.com/364/">signing their public keys with the
  highest trust level</a>, they now finally decided to swim into the harbour of
marriage. It is the first marriage your editor knows about, where both were
Fellows <strong>before</strong> their marriage. The FSFE wishes them all the best
for their future and is looking forward to see a lot of <a href="http://media.macno.org/u/macno/m/i-am-a-fork/">"forks"</a>, so we have more Free Software activists. May many <a
  href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">fellow <!-- pun intended --> this
  example</a>!</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>From August 21st to 26th Free Software will be one major theme at Campus
  Party in Berlin. Your editor helped to find some interesting speakers for the
  event. Well, <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=961">see yourself</a>.</li>

  <li>La Quadrature Du Net published a video tutorial how to call a Member of
  the European Parliament (MEP). You can apply <a
    href="https://www.laquadrature.net/node/5880">their instructions</a> to our
  <a href="/campaigns/askyourcandidates/askyourcandidates.html">Ask You Candidates
  campaign</a> and talk with politicians about general Free Software
  topics, <a href="/campaigns/campaigns.html">our campaigns</a>, or other
  issues.</li>

  <li>How, exactly, can you have a successful project with collaborators? Can
  we quantitatively analyse past projects to figure out what works, instead of
  just using our best guesses? <a
    href="http://www.dwheeler.com/blog/2012/07/08/#internet-success">David A.
    Wheeler reviewed a book</a> which analyses how to be successful
  with Free Software.</li>

  <li>You want to have a small low cost Free Software PC? Take a look <a
    href="http://raymii.org/cms/p_Small_Linux_PCs_overview">at this
    overview</a> and decide what is best for you.</li>

  <li>Digital Restriction Managmenet: Our sister, the FSF <a
    href="http://www.defectivebydesign.org/node/2241">finished an update
    of the "Guide to DRM-free Living"</a> with dozens of new places to get
  ebooks, movies, and music without DRM.</li>

  <li>A selection from the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">Fellowship blog
    aggregation</a>:</li>

  <ul>

    <li><a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Berlin">Berlin Fellowship
      group</a> coordinator Alexander Kahl wrote about why <a href="
      http://paralambda.org/2012/07/06/git-evolution-of-a-topic-branch-and-how-to-review-it/">
      git kicks ass</a> and <a
      href="http://paralambda.org/2012/07/02/using-gnu-emacs-as-a-terminal-emulator/">how
      to use GNU Emacs as a terminal emulator</a>.  </li>

  <li>What is going on in Norway, and what is the role of Free Software
  competence centres? Paul Boddie <a href="
    http://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=88">takes a look</a> at the Norwegian
  government's recent withdrawal of all financial support for the Norwegian
  Free Software Competence Center.</li>

  <li>Hugo Roy explains how to <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/hugo/2012/07/tweet-bang-how-to-share-a-link-quickly-on-twitter-using-duckduckgo/">microblog
    links quickly with duckduckgo</a>.</li>

  <li><a
    href="http://losca.blogspot.de/2012/07/where-computing-takes-you.html">
    Timo Jyrinki tells a story</a> how sometimes computing brings you to the
  closet.</li> 

  <li><a href="/contribute/internship.html">Our interns</a> were attending
  Richard Stallman's talk in Dresden. Anatolii Doludenko published <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/tolld/2012/07/12/fsfe-in-dresden-during-rms-talk/">
    some pictures in his blog</a>.</li>

  <li>From the Nokia 770 to the N800 to the N810 to the N900 to the N9. What is
  next? Read Henri Bergius' <a
    href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/meego-diaspora/">dreams of the MeeGo
    diaspora</a>.</li>

  <li>Our former president Georg Greve <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=529">gives an update and overview about
    the Free Software groupware Kolab 3.0</a>,</li>

  <li>and finally our vice president is <a
    href="https://sandklef.wordpress.com/2012/07/21/searduino-needs-a-gui/">
    looking for someone who can write a GUI front-end to Searduino</a>. Can
  you? If not, but you want to help Free Software, continue reading our this
  month's get active item.</li>

  </ul>
</ul>

<h2>Get Active: Help us with Android installation parties!</h2>

<p>Torsten Grote, who started our <a href="http://FreeYourAndroid.org">Free
  Your Android</a> campaign, wrote down what he is <a href="
  http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2012/07/18/what-i-am-missing-in-cyanogenmod-9/">missing
  in CyanogenMod 9</a>. In good Free Software fashion he created feature
requests for a configurable power control widget, an ssh daemon, direct in-app
shortcuts, or native OpenVPN support in CyanogenMod’s issue tracker.</p>

<p>We want to help as many people as possible to regain control of their
Android devices and their data in general. One important step in this process
is helping people to install Free Software on their phones and tablets. So on Software
Freedom Day (15th September) the FSFE wants to have public Free Your Android
installation parties.</p>

<p>If you can organise such a workshop, <a
  href="mailto:android@lists.fsfe.org">please let us know</a>! If you still
need help on how to do so, we will try to help you having a successful event.
E.g. on August 26th we will have a workshop in Berlin for people who plan to
give such workshops in the future, be it at Software Freedom Day, at a
conference or another occaison.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date: 2011-06-06 12:32:19 +0200 (Mon, 06 Jun 2011) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
