<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2013-06-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - June 2012</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - June 2012 TODO DRAFT</h1>

<!-- DO NOT TRANSLATE. THIS IS A DRAFT -->

<h2>State neglected web standards, company now faces EUR 5600 in fines</h2>

<p>In Slovakia, the state has mandated electronic means as a only way of
fulfilling certain statutory obligations. However the dedicated web solution
excludes some citizens from use as it is not interoperable and runs only on the
software from one vendor. In absence of any non-electronic option, this means
that state, in fact, prescribed the use of a certain product from a certain
vendor. Who did not own the copy, had to buy one. Slovak textile importer
deemed that state should not force him to use a certain software for his
business and fulfilled its legal obligation by paper. Now the company faces EUR
5600 in fines.</p>

<p>Current FSFE intern Martin Husovec decided this is not just and made this
case his internship project to change it: he is working on the case, reading
court files, wrote <a
  href="/news/2012/news-20120509-01.html">FSFE's press release</a>, and an <a
  href="/news/2012/news-20120509-02.html">executive summary of the EURA
  case</a>. Motivated to ensure, that no company is forced to use certain
software in Slovakia just to fulfill the law, he will keep you updated.</p>


<h2>Free Software, Open Source, FOSS, FLOSS – Same same but different</h2>

<p>There are two major terms connected to software you can freely use, study,
share and improve: Free Software and Open Source. Based on them you can also
find different combinations and translations like FOSS, Libre Software, FLOSS
and so on. Reading articles about Free Software or listening to people involved
in Free Software often raises the question: Why do they use one term or another
and how they differ from each other? </p>

<p>Long time FSFE volunteer Björn Schiessle wrote <a
  href="http://blog.schiessle.org/2012/05/11/free-software-open-source-foss-floss-same-same-but-different/">a good article</a> on this topic, which will be interesting for you, even if
you think you already know everything about the different terms.</p>


<h2>Will the UK be lobbied into the FRAND trap?</h2>

<p>Free Software could be blocked from the UK's public sector use if the new
policy allows "FRAND" terms within British standards.  As recently revealed by
Freedom of Information requests: Intensive lobbying efforts have focused on
pressuring the Cabinet Office to back down on a strong definition of Open
Standards over the past few months.</p>

<p>FSFE is trying to counter this development. In May the <a
  href="/news/2012/news-20120528-01.html">FSFE asked North-West UK businesses
  to tell Government that Open Standards matter</a>, and we will continue to
work on the case.</p>


<h2>Democratic elections with non-free software?</h2>

<p>In France, the <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2012/news-20120525-01.html">
  FSFE has raised its concerns (French)</a> on the online voting process
implemented for French electors registered abroad. FSFE strongly criticised the
complete lack of precautions, the opacity of the voting process, and the
request to use proprietary software to vote.</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>"My cooking can't be a copy of your cooking." Richard Stallman wrote a
  new article <a
    href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/network-services-arent-free-or-nonfree.html">"Network
    Services Aren't Free or Nonfree; They Raise Other Issues"</a>.</li>

  <li>This <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=590">month's
    Fellowship interview</a> is with Giacomo Poderi, member of FSFE's general
  assembly, has worked as a translator and editor for FSFE, as well as
  completing a master’s degree in Philosophy. Currently he’s working on a Ph.D
  in sociology, which looks at the user experience in Free Software Projects,
  focusing on the turn-based strategy game "The Battle for Wesnoth".</li>

  <li><a
    href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/spains-basque-countrys-administration-share-all-its-software">According
    to joinup</a> software written by or for public authorities and public
  organisations in the Basque Country will by default be made available to
  others as Free Software starting this July.</li>

  <li>What happens with licenses when the licensor gets insolvent? <a
    href="http://www.ifross.org/artikel/vorschlag-des-ifross-insolvenzrechtlichen-fragen-bei-oss-lizenzen">
    IfrOSS wrote a proposal</a> about insolvency questions with Free Software
  Licenses, which FSFE also supports </li>

  <li>Open Standards: "How did we get to a point where we will pay for the
  'privilege' of having a vendor take our data and lock it up such that we have
  to pay them, again and again, to access it?" asks Jake Edge from LWN in his
  article <a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/496418/">"Who owns your data?"</a>.
  Will you rebel at next year's <a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document
    Freedom Day</a>?</li>

  <li><a href="http://piana.eu/java-verdict">Carlo Piana: "Verdict in Oracle v.
    Google, what it says"</a> and <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/news/fsf-statement-on-jurys-partial-verdict-in-oracle-v-google">FSF
    statement on jury's partial verdict in Oracle v Google</a> "Were it
  grounded in reality, Oracle's claim that copyright law gives them proprietary
  control over any software that uses a particular functional API would be
  terrible for free software and programmers everywhere." </li>


  <li>A selection from the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">Fellowship blog
    aggregation</a>:

  <ul>

    <li>Fellowship representative <a
      href="http://roussos.cc/2012/05/14/liberate-your-cloud-data/">Nikos
      Roussos gave a speech</a> about available Free Software solutions out
    there that can be used for self-hosted cloud services.</li>

    <li>"I do not believe that Windows is the future of the Free Software
    desktop." Sounds obious? Is it? Read Georg Greve's blog article <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=505">"A bridge leading nowhere:
      Outlook-centric groupware"</a></li>

    <li>Clean, Playful, Wide use in Free Software, Out-of-the-boxiness: <a
      href="http://computerfloss.com/2012/05/why-choose-python-for-teaching/">Why
      choose Python for teaching?</a> by Fellow Karl Beecher.</li>

    <li>FSFE's vice-president <a
      href="https://sandklef.wordpress.com/2012/04/16/examples-in-manuals-how-to-verify-test-them/">is
      hacking on Searduino</a> is a software to make it easy to program C/C++
    for Arduino, a simulator for source level Arduino API, and more.</li>

    <li>Looking for a good configuration for your tiling window manager?
    Fellows shared their config files for<a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2012/05/05/my-awesome-wm-config/">Awesome</a>,
    and <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/thomaslocke/2012/05/05/my-xmonad-wm-config/">xmonad</a>.</li>

    <li>Hannes Hauswedell wrote about <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2012/05/12/improving-e-mail-privacy/">improving
      e-mail privacy</a> by removing header information when using GnuPG and
    Thunderbird.</li>

    <li>Failing software projects fast and rapidly: How you do that?  Refer to
    developers as resources, do not invest in tooling, or <a
      href="http://blog.isabel-drost.de/index.php/archives/389/geecon-failing-software-projects-fast-and-rapidly">read
      the other suggestions by Isabel Drost</a>. If you want to give a
    presentation about it, she also has suggestions <a
      href="http://blog.isabel-drost.de/index.php/archives/385/presentation-shortening">
      how to shorten your presentation</a>.  </li>


    <!-- Too much :-/

    <li>"So you do care about freedom. You do care about Free Software, because
    it gives you the four freedoms to use, study, share and improve the fabrics
    that make up digital life. If you also happen to live in Berlin area, get
    your ass here!" Read more about the <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/e-user/2012/05/11/fsfe-fellowship-of-berlin-we-want-you/">Berlin
      Fellowship meetings in Alexander Kahl's weblog</a>.</li>

    <li>Timo Jyrinki posted some pictures about the Tampere Ubuntu release party. 
    http://losca.blogspot.de/2012/05/tampere-ubuntu-1204-lts-release-party.html</lI>

    <li>Tomas Locke about Concurrent Ada Programming. Ada, where the whole
    concept of concurrent programming has been build into the language from
    it’s inception in 1983. http://blogs.fsfe.org/thomaslocke/2012/05/17/concurrent-ada-programming/</li>

    <li>Hamburg Fellowship coordinator Dominic Hopf writes about his
    experiences from the Grazer LinuxTage 2012
    http://blog.dmaphy.de/2012/05/grazer-linuxtage-2012.html</li>

    <li>Keep track of your time. <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=375">Install GTimeLog time
      tracker on Fedora 16 GNU/Linux</a>. It is widely used from FSFE's
    staff! </li>

    -->

  
  </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Get Active: PDFReaders 2.0 – Your help is needed!</h2>
  
<p><a href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html">The petition</a> is signed by
72 organisations, 57 businesses, and 2327 individuals. The Green party filed an
<a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/parliamentary-questions-eu.html">ocial request in
  the EP</a> (5 questions) , and <a
  href="http://gruen-digital.de/2012/03/document-freedom-day-kleine-anfrage-laesst-bundes-cio-gegen-adobe-reader-werbung-taetig-werden-jetzt-mithelfen/">
  in the German Parliament </a> (18 questions with introduction). The German
agency for IT security is recommending <a
  href="http://pdfreaders.org">pdfreaders.org</a> in their new migration guide
and highlights that you should not advertise for non-free software readers. And
539 public administrations removed the advertisment for non-free software.</p>

<p>After long discussions and considerations the PDF readers team is now
preparing a major update to PDFReaders.org, adding: a more appealing and
cleaner front-page, with one recommendation for the auto-detected platform;
free pdf reader recommendations for mobile platforms; and free pdf browser
plugin recommmendations.</p>

<p>Please have a look at the current <a
  href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/PDFreaders/todo2012/Overview-Page">reader
  overview and the TODOs there</a>, and <a
  href="mailto:feedback@pdfreaders.org">tell us</a> if you know any other free
pdf readers that we have not listed, and which Android reader you would
recommend.</p>


<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
