<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2014-06-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - June 2014</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201406">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – June 2014</h1>

        <div class="e-content">

<h2>Security is interdependent: We are all Gmail users now</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">You care about privacy and you are either paying an e-mail provider, or even
run your own mail server to keep autonomy, control, and privacy over your
email. You do this because you want to make sure that no big company has copies
of all of your personal email. Still, this does not prevent other companies
from getting their hands on your data. It is not enough to merely take care of
your own security, if you seek to increase your security. You have to convince
your peers to increase their security, too: like Jacob Appelbaum says, <a
href="http://www.roussos.cc/2014/05/14/our-privacy-is-interdependent/">security
is interdependent</a>.</p>

<p>FSF board member Benjamin Mako Hill wondered how much of his email has ended
up in the hands of companies such as Google. So he wrote a small program to go
through all his email since April 2004 (when Gmail was introduced) and analyse
it. <a
href="http://mako.cc/copyrighteous/google-has-most-of-my-email-because-it-has-all-of-yours">Read
what Benjamin found out</a>, what <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2014/05/27/were-all-gmail-users-now-pt-2">results
FSFE's Karsten Gerloff</a> and <a
href="http://hroy.eu/posts/gmail-most-email/">Hugo Roy</a> got when they
reproduced it, and why not try those scripts out for yourself?</p>

<h2>Is it a torch light or a spy in your pocket?</h2>

<p>A lot of programs that people install on their Android devices violate their
security. It is common that those programs ask users to accept non-readable
terms and conditions, once installed they might reveal where the device (and
therefore the user) currently is, and access personal data like user's address
books or text messages. A seemingly innocent app such as a torch light can thus
violate the user's privacy.</p>

<p>For owners of mobile devices it is important to have an app store that
exclusively provides Free Software. Since this means that the source code can
be checked by external parties other than the vendor, they can check what an
app really does, and highlight or directly remove anti-features. The result is
a repository providing software with licenses that respect the user's rights
instead of violating them.</p>

<p>In the last months we experienced that more and more people care about the
software on their mobile devices. <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/consumer-protection-for-mobiles-is-it-a-torch-light-or-a-spy-in-your-pocket/">Your
editor summarised what is currently happening with Free Your Android</a>,
including promotion in Greece, updating and translation status of our F-Droid
leaflets, an interview with the F-Droid developer, and your editor
participating in an event about consumer protection in the mobile phone sphere
in the German Parliament.</p>

<h2>Another security nightmare: DRM</h2>

<p>After a <a href="http://lwn.net/Articles/584167/">possible setback for DRM
  in Europe</a> it is important to raise more awareness about this issue. We
cannot stay quiet while some companies use Digital Restriction Management to
write their own copyright laws, restrict us, and decrease our IT security. Many
organisations including <a
href="https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/05/how-drm-harms-our-computer-security">EFF</a>,
April, and us participated in the <a
href="http://www.defectivebydesign.org/thanks-for-a-great-international-day-against-drm">Day
Against DRM</a>, organised by FSF to highlight the dangers of DRM. The FSFE
used the occasion to <a href="/news/2014/news-20140506-01.html">contact the
European Commission with an Open Letter about DRM in HTML5</a>. We explained
that DRM is directly contrary to the interests of the vast majority of Internet
users everywhere.</p>

<p>Just a few days later the Free Software community received the bad news from
Mozilla: DRM will be implemented in Firefox (the part is called EME). The
reactions ranged from the <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/news/fsf-condemns-partnership-between-mozilla-and-adobe-to-support-digital-restrictions-management">FSF
condemning the partnership between Mozilla and Adobe</a>, <a
href="https://hacks.mozilla.org/2014/05/reconciling-mozillas-mission-and-w3c-eme/">Mozilla
justifying its decision</a>, <a
href="https://leomca.github.io/2014/05/15/Mozilla-and-DRM.html">others
supporting it</a>, and <a
href="http://blogs.computerworlduk.com/open-enterprise/2014/05/whither-mozilla/index.htm">Glyn
Moody criticising them by comparing Mozilla's mission with its current
action</a>. As always we are interested in your opinion. What do you think
about Mozilla's decision and its reasoning? What can the Free Software
community do to counterbalance this move? Let us know on our <a
href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/discussion">public discussion
list</a>.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

<li>FSFE's country team Netherlands <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/flx/2014/05/07/the-importance-of-free-software/">wrote
  a short text &quot;The Importance of Free Software&quot;</a> (also <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/flx/2014/05/07/het-belang-van-vrije-software/">available in Dutch</a>) about the
relevance of Free Software and its conclusions for policy makers. The text
highlights the crucial question for our society about &quot;who controls the
software?&quot;. &quot;Because if we don't control the software we use, it
controls us. And whoever controls the software therefore controls us.&quot; The
text then was used to convince candidates to sign the <a
href="http://freesoftwarepact.eu">Free Software Pact</a> - a project run by
<a href="http://www.april.org/">April</a> and supported by many organisations, including
the FSFE.</li>

<li>Fellowship Groups: After two years as a Fellowship representative in FSFE's
GA, <a
  href="http://www.roussos.cc/2014/04/30/athens-free-software-monthly-meetups/">Nikos
  Roussos now started local FSFE meetings in Athens</a>. Furthermore we had a
  <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/05/report-from-the-first-fellowship-meeting-in-wiesbaden/">first
  Fellowship meeting in Wiesbaden</a>. In addition, new groups are establishing
regular meetings since a while now in Zurich and Cologne.</li>

<li>Our sister organisation, the FSF, awarded the <a
  href="https://www.fsf.org/news/tehnoetic-wireless-usb-adapter-now-fsf-certified-to-respect-your-freedom">Respects
  Your Freedom (RYF) certification to the Tehnoetic TET-N150 wireless USB
  adapter</a>. The RYF certification mark is awarded to products that meet the
FSF's standards in regard to users' freedom, control over the product, and
privacy. Visitors of FSFE's booth at FOSDEM might already know those adapters,
as Tiberiu C. Turbureanu sold them at our booth.</li>

<li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>:

<ul>

<li>Carsten Agger explains what the result of the <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/agger/2014/05/26/elections-14-not-much-to-celebrate/">Danish referendum on the European patent court and the unitary patent means for software patents</a>.</li>

<li>Leena Simon published an essay about the importance of attributions and the flow of information named <a href="http://leena.de/standing-on-the-shoulders-of-free-culture/">&quot;Standing on the Shoulders of Free Culture&quot;</a>.</li>

<li>Your editor wrote about the <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/support-hardware-computing-platform-for-hackers-and-free-software-drivers-now/">Novena hardware computing platform for hackers and Free Software drivers</a> and documented <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/how-to-generate-a-new-wifi-password-the-mobile-friendly-way/">how to generate a new wifi password the mobile friendly way</a>.</li>

<li>Henri Bergius spent three days at the GNOME Developer Experience hackfest
<a href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/flowhub-gnome-dx/">working on the NoFlo
runtime for GNOME</a>.</li> 

<li>Mario Fux wrote that <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mario/?p=231">Debian's
  KDE community needs help</a>.</li>

<li>Our new intern <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/seeger/2014/05/23/linuxtag-2014/">Bela
Seeger</a> as well as long term Fellow <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/padams/?p=303">Paul Adams</a> report from Linuxtag
in Berlin.</li>

<li>While Konstantinos Boukouvalas wrote about LPI affiliates, <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/boukouvalas/?p=556">openLabs and OSCAL, as well
as the Albanian Free Software Community</a>.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<h2>Get active: Your experiences with programming resources for children</h2>

<p>Beside <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/05/free-software-in-education-news-april/">publishing
the monthly Free Software in education news</a> our education team answers a
lot of question by people who want to use more Free Software in education.</p>

<p>As the edu-team was asked for good resources to teach kids to program, Guido
Arnold thought the answer (or more a summary of the answers) might be
interesting to others as well. So he published <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/05/teach-programming-with-free-software/">the
summary</a>. To improve our education website we ask you to give us feedback on
those resources. How do you like them, did you already have experience with
some of them, what was good, where did you have problems, and which resources
did we miss?</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>, <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>
    </div>
    <!--/e-content-->

</body>
        <sidebar promo="about-fsfe"><!--
            <h3>FSFE News</h3>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="/news/">Press Releases</a></li>
                <li><a href="/news/newsletter.html">Newsletters Archive</a></li>
                <li><a href="/events/">Upcoming Events</a></li>
                <li><a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/">Planet Blogs</a></li>
                <li><a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a></li>
            </ul>
        --></sidebar>
<author id="kirschner" />
<date>
<original content="2014-06-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
	<tag>AskYourCandidates</tag>
	<tag>DRM</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
