<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-10-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - October 2011</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - October 2011</h1>


<h2>Laundruino - The laundry hack and laser sharks</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">FSFE Fellow Michael Clemens has a solution for all of you out there who want
to know when their laundry in the washing machine is done. <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/clemens/2011/08/05/the-arduino-enabled-washing-machine/">In
  his article he explains </a> how to build get a "Laundruino", based on the
Free Software microcontroller <a
  href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arduino">Arduino</a>, which informs you of
the status of your laundry cycle.  </p>

<p>During his research for a <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=828">radio interview (German) </a> about a
teenager who built a Free Software earthquake detection system for under 100
EUR, your editor was delighted to find many similar projects, such as how to
make free hardware based <a
  href="http://www.instructables.com/id/Make-a-wall-avoiding-Robot!/">simple
  robots</a>, <a
  href="http://www.instructables.com/id/The-Arduino-Weather-Station-Thermostat/">weather
  stations</a>, <a
  href="http://www.makershed.com/ProductDetails.asp?ProductCode=mkca1">a
  blimp</a>, an <a
  href="http://hacknmod.com/hack/high-speed-photography-how-to-trigger-using-arduino/">installation
  to make high speed pictures </a> and <a
  href="http://wiki.makerbot.com/thingomatic">3D-makerbots</a>.</p>

<p>These creative and educational guides are the result of people sharing
blueprints and source code, and are made possible by the fact that the authors
are able to change how these computers work. They can modify them, and share
their knowledge and ideas with others. With Free Software and free hardware,
people can really understand the technology that surrounds them, and change it
to meet their needs. And who knows, maybe soon your editor's dream of sharks
with lasers will become reality.</p>


<h2>Euro 2012 champion to speak at FSCONS</h2>

<p>Guido Arnold from FSFE's <a
  href="/activities/education/eduteam.html">Education Team</a> presented the
results of the Euro 2012 qualification in Free Software and Open Standards for
<a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2011/09/euro-2012-in-free-software-qualification-results-sep-2-2011/">September
  2nd </a>, <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2011/09/euro2012-in-free-software-qualification-results-sep-3-2011/">September
  3rd </a> and <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2011/09/euro2012-in-free-software-qualification-results-sep-6/">September
  6th </a>. On November 12th, he will give a presenation in FSFE's track at <a
  href="http://fscons.org">FSCONS</a> about the developments of Free Software
in education and how to participate in the team's activities.</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>"In Facebook you are not the customer, you are the product", writes our
  President Karsten Gerloff in <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/09/23/facebooks-opengraph-time-to-get-out/">his
    article</a> on recent announcements by Facebook, and decentralised <a
    href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/CloudComputing/">social networks</a>.</li>

  <li>Check out the latest Fellowship Interview with <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=422">Stefan
    Kangas</a>, who talks about <a href="https://fripost.org/">Fripost</a> as a
  new community developing Free, privacy-preserving email services in a
  reliable way.  </li>

  <li>A selection of interesting blog entries from our <a
    href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: 

  <ul>
   
    <li>Two Fellows doing analysis: Henri Bergus introduces us to <a
      href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/business_analytics_with_couchdb_and_noflo/">business
      analytics with CouchDB and NoFlo</a>, and <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/padams/?p=237">Paul Adams analyses SVN
      commits in KDE</a>.</li>

    <li>"Dr. Danz" wrote a daily journal about the KDE-telepathy sprint: <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/drdanz/?p=542">day 0</a>, <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/drdanz/?p=555">day 1</a>, <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/drdanz/?p=576">day 2</a>, and <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/drdanz/?p=587">day 3</a>.</li>

    <li>Read <a href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/business_analytics_with_couchdb_and_noflo/">Henri's view</a> on
    who is winning the war between tablets and laptops, and share your views
    with our <a href="/contact/community.html">mailing lists</a>.</li>
    
  </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Get Active: New merchandise - Laser sharks with Fellowship logo?</h2>

<p>We want to think about some new merchandise, and we would really like your
fresh ideas. So please help us brainstorming; send proposals for t-shirt
designs and other merchandise ideas to discussion@fsfeurope.org, or if you
prefer, directly to me at the address below. It does not matter if your ideas
are crazy or unrealistic. Send them in and help us to be creative.</p>
  
<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>

<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a
  href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a>
</p>

<p>
-- <br/>
  <a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br/>
  <a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br/>
  <a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br/>
  <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br/>
  <a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a>
</p>

</body>

−
<tags>
<tag>newsletter</tag>
<tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>
−
<timestamp>
$Date$ $Author$
</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
