<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2014-09-04" type="newsletter">

<head>
  	<title>FSFE Newsletter - September 2014</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201409">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – September 2014</h1>
	<div class="e-content">

<h2>An Introduction to Free Software and the liberation of cyberspace</h2>

<p>The freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of
association, and privacy are essential preconditions for a Free Society. If it
lacks one of those freedoms, it is difficult to maintain the others. As a
society, it is important to defend those freedoms, especially in light of
fundamental changes such as the one introduced by the ubiquity of computers.
Such changes can threaten old freedoms and can create the need for new ones. So
now software freedom is crucial to distribute and balance power in society. The
FSFE is convinced that a free society needs the freedoms which only Free
Software can offer. That is, why we advocate Free Software.</p>

<p>In 2010, we wrote the article <a
href="/freesoftware/society/democracy.html">"Democracy requires Free
Software"</a>, explaining the message above to politicians at the ceremony at
which the Theodor-Heuss medal was awarded to the FSFE.  Thanks to FSFE's
translators team, the article is meanwhile available in 15 languages, and is
shared widely.</p>

<p>Since last month, the message of the importance of Free Software is also
featured in a short TEDx video <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/rms/20140407-geneva-tedx-talk-free-software-free-society">&quot;Introduction
to Free Software and the liberation of cyberspace&quot;</a> by Richard
Stallman. It is a good way to make others aware of the significance of Free
Software and why it matters. We need more people to understand why Free
Software matters for a free society, as the following examples will show once
again.</p>

<h2>Slovakia still forcing users to use non-free software</h2>

<p>In 2012 -- thanks to our former intern Martin Husovec -- the FSFE got
engaged in <a href="/campaigns/eura-slovakia/eura.html">a case against the
Slovak Tax Authorities</a> together with the European Information Society
Institute (EISi). As current FSFE intern <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gera/2014/08/18/interesting-new-development-in-slovakia-fight-for-open-standards-continues-on-new-battleground/">
Matej Gera writes in his blog</a> the problem of Slovak authorities forcing
people to use non-free software is still ongoing: According to a new regulation
in Slovakia, people who own agricultural land and want to sell it must make an
offer on web page of the Ministry of Agriculture first. In order to submit an
offer to the Ministry's web page, you need to use additional software. The
software in question is proprietary and only available for Microsoft Windows,
and it is the only way -- there is no paper form. If you would try to sell the
land otherwise, you would break the law.</p>

<p>This practice is not only unacceptable for Free Software users, but also
unlawful itself in Slovakia. Since 2008, there is a binding regulation which
forbids public authorities to request users to use a specific operating system.
But the website of Ministry clearly does not comply with this rule. Now, the
Slovak non-profit organisation EISi sent a letter to Ministry of Agriculture,
calling to end this practice. If they will not comply with the letter and will
not provide an interoperable solution until October, EISi will go to court to
protect rights of Slovak software users.</p>

<h2>Forced by Internet Service Provider to use certain hardware</h2>

<p>It should go without saying that in our society, we should be able to freely
choose technical devices for use in our homes like we choose the furniture or
the books in our shelves. But besides authorities forcing us to to use non-free
software, the FSFE currently also has to counter companies who want to force us
to use certain computers in our home. In this case even one of the most
important computers: the router, which should act as the gatekeeper between our
private network and the public internet.</p>

<p>In Germany, Internet service providers (ISPs) force their customers to use
certain types of hardware in order to connect to the internet. Users of
alternative devices, instead, are not able to connect to the internet by those
ISPs. Together with other members of the Free Software community, our German
team wrote several comments on this case and we entered talks with government
agencies, corporations, and other organisations about compulsory routers.</p>

<p>As this topic was mainly covered in Germany and in German, our German team
member Max Mehl summarised <a href="/activities/routers/routers.html">this
case</a> and made a <a href="/activities/routers/timeline.html">timeline of the
most important events which lead to the current state</a>. We hope that with
this information we can support other Free Software activists around the world,
who might face similar problems.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

<li>FSFE has received television coverage twice in the last months. First, our
legal coordinator Matija Šuklje was interviewed for the RTV Slovenia to point
out the challenges for the newly appointed Information Commissioner of Slovenia
related to cloud computing. Although they translated the FSFE into "Foundation
for unrestricted programming", it was the first time for the FSFE to appear on
Slovenian television. Thereafter, our Austrian coordinator Peter Bubestinger
was in Mexico City at an archiving seminar, where he presented use cases for
file-formats and long-term storage implemented in Free Software. The whole
seminar was translated live into Spanish and broadcasted on Televison
Educativa, a nation-wide education TV channel. They also uploaded the videos to
youtube. <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ggCvJ0dzqx4">Peter's
interview</a> can be found at 3h50m.</li>

<li>Guido Arnold published some <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/08/free-software-in-education-news-july/">education
news</a> covering a hacking contest to find security holes in Moodle, Free
Software activists visiting schools in Slovakia, and other education related
news.</li>

<li>GNU community members and collaborators <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/gnu-hackers-discover-hacienda-government-surveillance-and-give-us-a-way-to-fight-back">have
discovered details about a five-country government surveillance program
codenamed HACIENDA</a>. Those same hackers have already worked out a Free
Software countermeasure to thwart the program.</li>

<li>Equipped with free GNU Radio software, a group of citizen scientists has
contacted, controlled, and is attempting to recapture a 1970s-era satellite and
bring it back into an orbit close to Earth. <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/free-software-in-space-gnu-radio-and-the-isee-3-spacecraft">The
story behind this</a> demonstrates the importance of developing, maintaining,
and promoting Free Software.</li>

<li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>:</li>

<ul>

<li>Hugo Roy takes a look at what is featured in the European Court of
Justice's <a href="https://hroy.eu/posts/whats-in-C-131_12/">&quot;right to be
forgotten&quot;</a>. As he found it difficult to read, he wrote an alternate
version of the directive. In another post he explains <a
href="http://hroy.eu/posts/intro-defpubs/">why he helped the Free Software
search engine developer Pablo Joubert to publish a defensive publication</a>
around search engines making use of distributed hash tables.</li>

<li>Our former intern Lucile Falgueyrac writes about why <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2014/08/11/ttip-policy-laundering-a-few-reasons-for-free-software-communities-to-get-angry/">TTIP
&amp; CETA entails a few reasons for Free Software advocates to get angry</a>.
She argues that now, there is a good moment to send a strong message to the
European Commission, the governments and states that policy laundering is not a
legitimate way to legislate, and never should be.</li>

<li>Our current intern Bela Seeger <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/seeger/2014/08/04/off-the-record-otr-messaging/">wrote
a blog post about Off-The-Record (OTR) Messaging</a>, clarifying the meaning
and technicalities of "off-the-record" (OTR) messaging and giving
insight into the possibilities of implementing it in various devices. (You
might have noticed in this edition, that current and former interns of FSFE are
quite active!)</li>

<li>Our Fellows participated at many events. Nikos Roussos <a
href="http://www.roussos.cc/2014/08/13/fedora-flock-2014/">writes about his
personal highlights of the Fedora Contributor Conference 2014</a>. He also
mentioned the keynote about the Novena laptop project, which was <a
href="http://lwn.net/Articles/608426/">summarised on LWN</a>. Mario Fux and
Mirko Böhm report from the KDE meeting in Randa, with around 50 Free Software
activists improving KDE. To get some impressions from the meeting, Mirko posted
a <a
href="http://creative-destruction.me/2014/08/28/the-kde-randa-video/">short
video from the meeting in Switzerland</a>.</li>

<li>André Ockers, who is currently updating and translating almost all FSFE
materials into Dutch, <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/ao/">started
blogging</a>. He writes in English, Dutch, German, and French.</li>

<li>Kevin Keijzer, also from the Netherlands, gives a <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/the_unconventional/2014/08/06/a-quick-overview-of-the-free-software-im-using/">detailed
overview of Free Software he is using</a>.</li>

<li>Daniel Pocock gives an update on <a
href="http://danielpocock.com/webrtc-what-works-what-doesnt">WebRTC, explaining
what works, what does not</a>.</li>

<li>Matija reports from his <a
href="http://matija.suklje.name/the-jamendo-experiment-week-1">free music
expirement</a>, highlighting his favourite artists who are using Creative
Commons licenses for their music.</li>

</ul>
</ul>

<h2>Get active: Spread the word on Software Freedom Day</h2>

<p>On 20 September 2014, people around the world celebrate Free Software. The
organisers from Software Freedom International announced that the registration
for events is now open. They provide a <a
href="http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/StartGuide">start guide</a> with tips
and pointers for organising your own SFD team event. If you organise an event,
or just want to spread information about Free Software on Software Freedom Day
you can also:</p>

<ul>

<li><a
href="/contribute/spreadtheword.html#promo-material">order
printed information materials from us</a></li>

<li>send around <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/volunteers-translate-email-self-defense-guide-into-spanish-and-more">the
FSF's e-mail self defence guide</a> which is now available in 11 languages. (At
the "Freedom not Fear" demonstration our Berlin Fellowship group handed out a
hundreds of printed leaflet of the German version, which you can also order
from us.)</li>

<li>share <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/rms/20140407-geneva-tedx-talk-free-software-free-society">Richard
Stallman's video</a>, or the <a
href="/freesoftware/society/democracy.html">article mentioned
above</a> to explain your friends Free Software.</li>

</ul>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>, <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>
    </div>
    <!--/e-content-->

</body>
        <sidebar promo="about-fsfe">
            <h3>FSFE News</h3>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="/news/">Press Releases</a></li>
                <li><a href="/news/newsletter.html">Newsletters Archive</a></li>
                <li><a href="/events/">Upcoming Events</a></li>
                <li><a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/">Planet Blogs</a></li>
                <li><a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a></li>
            </ul>
        </sidebar>
<author id="kirschner" />
<date>
<original content="2014-09-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
