<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2018-03-03" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - March 2016</title>
</head>
<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201603">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - March 2016</h1>
	<div class="e-content">


<h2 id="i-love-free-software-day-2016">"I love Free Software" Day 2016</h2>

<p>For the 6th time in a row we asked everyone to express their gratitude 
and appreciation towards Free Software contributors on Valentine's Day. 
Check out our #ilovefs 2016 report and see <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160222-01.en.html">who got acknowledged 
this year through countless blog posts, pictures, artwork, memes, personal 
notes and many more.</a>. Don't forget to mark next year's 14 February as 
"I love Free Software" Day to continue this nice tradition of acknowledging 
the people and hard work of everyone behind Free Software. We thank all 
participants who found time to say "thank you" and for making #ilovefs 
2016 such a success!</p>

<h2 id="no-cloud-went-viral">"No cloud" went viral</h2>

<p>Just before "I love Free Software" Day, <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/the-reddit-effect-more-orders-in-24-hours-than-usually-in-6-months/">thanks to a spontaneous Reddit post we received over 200 orders of 
our promotional material</a> in the time span of 48 hours. In comparison, 
in 2015 we had around 370 orders in total. After 24 hours we had more 
orders than usual in 6 months. The majority of orders requested "no cloud"
material but beside that people also ordered our leaflet with basic 
information about Free Software, the GnuPG leaflet, and our F-Droid leaflet.</p>

<h2 id="european-free-software-policy-meeting-2016">European Free Software 
Policy Meeting 2016</h2>

<p>In the end of Janury we organised, together with Open Forum Europe, 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160205-01.en.html">a 
pre-FOSDEM policy meeting in Brussels with the active Free Software 
policy groups around Europe</a>. The purpose of the meeting was to learn 
about each other's activities and exchange views, with an emphasis on public 
policy related actions. In total, 19 organisations participated in the 
meeting. In addition, Member of the European Parliament Julia Reda, and a representative of the IT department of the European Commission, Pierre Damas, 
attended the meeting to present the work of EU institutions in the field 
of Free Software.</p>

<h2 id="out-of-the-community">Out of the community</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>February was dedicated to the sweet love declarations to Free 
Software in the light of #ilovefs day! Check out our #ilovefs 2016 report 
above for more detailed information about different blogposts, and get 
inspired for the next year's celebrations by following 
<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/floriansnow/2016/02/13/make-your-own-personal-banner-for-i-love-free-software-day/">Florian Snow's idea for DIY #ilovefs banners</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Paul Boddie combined retrocomputing with Python programming and 
wrote how to <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=1233">make Python 
programs faster with Shedskin</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Marcus Moeller gave tips about <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mmoeller/2016/02/03/getting-started-with-gnu-social/">getting started with the federated social network GNU social</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Björn Schießle contemplated about the future of GitHub and 
<a href="http://blog.schiessle.org/2016/02/12/the-next-generation-of-code-hosting-platforms/">the next generation of code hosting platforms</a>.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>After the adoption of the European Parliament's own-initiative 
report "Towards a Digital Single Market" which included several positive 
references to increase the use of Free Software in public sector, it 
turned out that the meaning of "free" software got lost in 
translation. In particular the Italian version of the report referred to 
Free Software as "gratis" as in free beer, instead of "libre" as in freedom. 
We asked the staff of the member of the European Parliament Julia Reda 
to help us and draw attention of the authors of the report to this mistake. 
<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/now-italian-european-parliaments-dsm-report-speaks-about-freedom-not-price/">The mistake got fixed and the Italian version of the report 
now rightfully refers to software freedom, and not the price</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>We've simplified a lot of our internal processes: no longer it is 
necessary for someone helping us with our web pages or in other teams to 
register a guest account in our systems. Instead they will now register 
in the same system as our Fellows. It may not sounds like much, but it's 
a revolution in simplification which we're very happy with! Read about 
how you too can 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/">contribute to our work</a></p></li>

<li><p>We published a <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160224-01.en.html">report of our work in 2015</a>. From teaching people to use encryption 
for their e-mail, to changing the direction of policy on a European level, 
FSFE worked hard in 2015 to empower users to control technology. We saw 
a lot of improvements in how we work, and we ended the year positively 
with a lot to look forward to in 2016. We want to thank everyone for 
helping us making the world a better place!</p></li>

<li><p>As hinted at in the previous newsletter, we've teamed up with KDE, 
Qt, VideoLAN and others who are organising QtCon 2016 in Berlin the 
2nd-4th of September 2016. We'll use the opportunity to host an FSFE 
summit during QtCon, with more information forthcoming.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take Action</h2>

<p>We still have plenty of "no cloud" stickers and other informational 
material in stock! Help us to spread the word about software freedom in 
your local community by 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/spreadtheword.en.html">ordering our 
leaflets, stickers, postcards and posters</a>.</p>

<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software news</h2>


<p>The French government is reviewing its existing Free Software support 
contract, signed in 2011, and <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/france-involves-public-draft-support-contract">asks Free Software communities and the 
public to help them draft their next multi-year framework contract for 
Free Software services and support.</a> Meanwhile, the French Parliament
has <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/france-assembly-encourages-use-free-software">approved a first draft law for a Digital Republic, which encourages 
the use of Free Software by public administrations, and considers source 
code of software developed by or for public administrations to be public information</a>. Schools in the capital of Estonia, Tallinn, <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/tallinn-schools-piloting-open-source-software">are gradually moving to Free Software after the city 
administration decided to switch to Free Software</a> in January 2015. By 
September 2015 more than 4000 workstations and laptops across the 50 
schools in Tallinn are running on Free Software. In Germany, <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/open-source-largest-german-pension-fund">Federal Pension Insurance, which is the largest in the country, is 
increasing the use of Free Software by publishing a call for tender 
seeking assistance for its Free Software-based services</a>.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the
<a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>
,
<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a>
and
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a>
who enable our work,</p>

<p>your editors Polina Malaja and Jonas Öberg <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a></p>
</div>
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2018-03-03"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
