<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2015-02-04" type="newsletter">

<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - February 2015</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201502">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – February 2015</h1>
	<div class="e-content">

	<h2>I ♥ Free Software</h2>

	<p>
		Come Feb 14 and our website will be turning pink and heart-laden to
		celebrate the creators of Free Software. We have taken the opportunity
		on every Valentine's Day since 2012 to celebrate not only our loved ones,
		but also the dedicated people working very hard to ensure that we have
		the option to use Free Software.
	</p>

	<p>
		You can read more about
		<a href="/news/2014/news-20140221-01.en.html">how we celebrated</a> the
		I ♥ Free Software Day in 2014 to get a feel for the spirit of the
		occasion, and you are very welcome to join our celebrations this year!
	</p>

	<h2>Fellowship elections</h2>
	
	<p>
		The <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/FellowshipElection_2015">Fellowship elections</a>
		are almost here! Three candidates
		(<a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Fellows/nidi/Election2015">Nicolas Dietrich</a>,
		<a href="http://blog.mehl.mx/2015/fellowship-elections/">Max Mehl</a>,
		and <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/flx/2015/01/26/my-candidacy-in-fsfes-fellowship-election-2015/">Felix Stegerman</a>)
		are vying for the seat currently held by
		<a href="/about/ojasild/ojasild.html">Repentinus</a>. Repentinus wishes
		them all very well in trying to replace him, and hopes that so shall
		you, our dear readers. May the best candidate win!
	</p>
	
	<p>
		Voting will take place from February 20 to March 6, and all orderly
		Fellows whose membership is active on February 19, 2015, 12am (UTC+1)
		are allowed to vote. So there is still plenty of time to
		<a href="/fellowship/ams/join.php?ams=join">renew your Fellowship</a>
		and to become able to make a difference.
	</p>

	<h2>Transitions</h2>

	<p>
		Whoever becomes the new Fellowship Representative will be joining a
		<a href="/about/team.html">Core Team</a> very different to that joined
		by Repentinus almost two years ago.
	</p>

	<p>
		First, we expect to take on
		<a href="/about/oberg/oberg.html">Jonas Öberg</a> as Executive
		Director around the same time the new Fellowship Representative will
		be joining the Core Team and the General Assembly. Furthermore, later
		in the year when the General Assembly will be holding its annual meeting,
		we will be electing a new President. It is expected that the GA will
		confirm our current Vice President
		<a href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.html">Matthias Kirschner</a> as the
		new President. These changes have been internally known for quite some
		time, but were
		<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2015/01/26/new-horizons/">publicly announced</a>
		by our President <a href="/about/gerloff/gerloff.html">Karsten Gerloff</a>
		only on January 26.
	</p>

	<h2>Something completely different</h2>
	
	<ul>
		<li>
			Our staffers, volunteers, and Fellows are often present at various Free
			Software gatherings. If you have always wondered what goes on at these
			conferences, then you would do well to read the
			<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/eal/2015/01/21/fsfes-assembly-at-chaos-communication-congress-31c3/">report from Chaos Communication Congress</a>,
			penned by our Fellowship Coordinator
			<a href="/about/albers/albers.html">Erik Albers</a>.
		</li>

		<li>
			From the planet aggregation:
			<ul>
				<li>
					Paul Boddie <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=835">writes</a>
					about the inadequate coverage topics like interoperability and
					platform choice have received in the past from consumer magazines.
					He notes how the advent of multiple mobile ecosystems is forcing
					consumer magazines to acknowledge the problem, and invites a major
					consumer magazine to join the push for interoperable Free
					Software.
				</li>
				<li>
					Guido Arnold, our Education team coordinator, has posted his
					monthly collection of
					“<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2015/01/free-software-in-education-news-december-2/">Free Software in Education News”</a>
					for December.
				</li>
				<li>
					Kevin Keijzer
					<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/the_unconventional/2015/01/11/free-software-education-human-rights/">makes the case for</a>
					Free Software in education as a human rights issue.
				</li>
				<li>
					Nico Rikken
					<a href="http://nicorikken.eu/blog/why-engineering-students-need-to-be-taught-free-software/">argues</a>
					that engineering students should be taught to use Free Software.
				</li>
				<li>
					Max Mehl writes about
					<a href="http://blog.mehl.mx/2015/yourls-url-shortener-for-turpial/">setting up your own URL shortener</a>.
				</li>
				<li>
					Felix Stegerman gives an overview of
					<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/flx/2015/01/26/fsfe-netherlands-in-2014/">FSFE activities in Netherlands throughout 2014</a>.
				</li>
			</ul>
		</li>
	</ul>

	<h2>Get active: hug a developer</h2>

	<p>
		For February we would like all of you to join us in celebrating developers
		of Free Software. Come 14th, please send developers, translators, and 
		artists e-mail, postcards, and cake, hug them (with permission, of
		course), or use any other polite and creative option to let them know
		just how much you appreciate them and the work they have put into Free
		Software you use every day.
	</p>

	<p>
		Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>,
		<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
		<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our
		work,<br />
		<a href="/about/ojasild">Heiki Ojasild</a><br />
		Fellowship Representative, <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a>
	</p>
	
	</div>
	<!--/e-content-->
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
<author id="ojasild" />
<date>
	<original content="2015-02-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
