<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2018-10-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - October 2013</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - October 2013</h1>

<h2>Our movement turned 30!</h2>

<p>On 27 September 1983 Richard Stallman announced the <a
  href="/freesoftware/basics/gnuproject.html">GNU project</a>. An initiative
that started with a <a
  href="http://oreilly.com/openbook/freedom/ch01.html">programmer's frustration
  over a broken printer driver</a> has changed our society. The idea of
software that everyone can <a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">use,
  study, share and improve</a> has proven powerful.</p>

<p>The GNU project has acted as the starting point of a movement that makes
sure we can control technology, and not technology controlling us. Today, Free
Software is everywhere: It powers the Internet, our mobile phones, televisions,
cars, routers, and electronic devices of all sorts. Free Software has
fundamentally changed the way people create software: instead of preventing
people to adapt the software to their own needs, they invite people to
participate in the development.</p>

<p>FSFE is grateful to Richard Stallman for sparking this epochal change, and
to everyone who has joined our movement to drive Free Software's progress for
three decades.</p>

<h2>Boost local activities: European Fellowship Coordinators Meeting</h2>

<p>For example our local Fellowship groups. During last month our groups in <a
  href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Referat19September2013">Aarhus hosted a talk</a>
and the meetings in <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2013/09/fellowship-treffen-rheinmain-in-frankfurt-4-sep-2013/">Frankfurt</a>
are continuing. In <a
  href="http://www.softmetz.de/2013/09/23/freie-software-beim-corso-leopold-2-0/">Munich
  we had a public booth during a street festival</a>, during Software Freedom
Day our Fellows informed passers-by about Free Software in <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/franz.gratzer/2013/09/22/software-freedom-day-2013-in-vienna/">Vienna</a>
and in <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/fast_edi/?p=393">Offenburg</a>, whereas
in <a
  href="http://coss.fi/2013/09/17/lauantaina-vietetaan-kansainvalista-avointen-ohjelmien-paivaa/">
  Helsinki</a> they helped others installing Free Software. Our Düsseldorf
Fellowship group was very active the last weeks as well: They had a booth at
the summer party of the <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=906">Pirate
  Party</a>, and attended the summer party of the  <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=925">Green Party</a>, held a <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=936">Software Freedom Day event</a>,
supported a <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=916">Cryptoparty in
  Kempen</a>, held a <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=946">regular
  meeting</a>, as well as <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=884">a
  talk by Sam Tuke about Free Your Android</a>.</p>
    
<p newsteaser="yes">From 27-29 September 22 Fellows of FSFE from 10 countries
gathered in Berlin for the first European Coordinators Meeting. During the
weekend the coordinators got to know each other, presented their work, talked
about possibilities to promote Free Software, shared good practices, and
provided valuable feedback about our campaigns. If you are interested to see
who is promoting Free Software in local Fellowship groups <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2013/10/01/first-european-coordinators-meeting-2/">have
  a look at Lucile's blog entry</a>.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>Technology should be a means to freedom and creativity. Yet governments
  around the world are turning computers and networks into tools of oppression.
  FSFE <a href="/news/2013/news-20130923-01.html">joined a coalition of more
    than 265 organisations</a> which launched a list of 13 International
  Principles on the Application of Human Rights to Communication
  Surveillance.</li>

  <li>Ask Your Candidates: Our Austrian team <a
    href="/news/2013/news-20130926-01.html">published their questions and
    answers for the Nationalratswahl (federal election)</a>, and the German <a
    href="/news/2013/news-20130918-01.html">published the
    answers to similar questions for the state election in Hessen</a>.</li>
  
  <li>After <a
    href="http://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20130729.EC.Fairsearch.letter.en.html">FSFE
    already spoke up against it</a>, KDE also rejected the Fairsearch
  initiative claims, and <a
    href="http://dot.kde.org/sites/dot.kde.org/files/KDE-Fairsearch-claim-response_0.pdf">stated
    why Free Software is competitive</a>.</li>

  <li>There is a <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2013/09/free-software-in-education-news-august-2013/">
    new edition of the Free Software in education news for August</a>,
  including what Open Education Resources can learn from Free Software </li>

  <li>Together with Mirko Vogt from OpenWrt FSFE <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1124">wrote a letter to the German
    Federal Network Agency</a> (German).  We argued about the importance of
  having the freedom to use every router you want to have for your internet
  access.</li>

  <li>CERN, which is publishing a lot of hardware design documentation, <a
    href="http://ohwr.org/cernohl">has updated its Open Hardware License to
    version 1.2</a>.</li>

  <li>To celebrate GNU's 30th anniversary, FSF suggested <a
    href="https://www.gnu.org/gnu30/gnu-a-day">software freedom actions</a> for
  each day during September. Of course you can repeat that anytime you
  want.</li>
  
  <li>Public administration: the <a
    href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/french-gendarmerie-open-source-desktop-lowers-tco-40">French
    Gendarmerie now maintains 37,000 GNU/Linux desktops</a>, and after the
  planned switch next summer it will be 72,000. Officials say they are able to
  lower the total cost of operation by 40% compared to the proprietary
  solution. But the savings are just one point, the other one is more vendor
  independence.</li>

  <li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>

    <li>Hugo Roy asks for feedback on the <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/hugo/2013/09/rfc-user-data-manifesto/">user
      data manifesto</a>.</li>

    <li>Georg Greve argues that software freedom advocates had it right all
    along: <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=634"> You cannot trust
      proprietary cryptography, or proprietary software</a>.</li>

    <li>Mirko Böhm and Paul Adams organised a <a
      href="http://creative-destruction.me/2013/09/15/open-source-in-wirtschaft-und-gesellschaft-sommeruni-2013/">
      seminar about Free Software in economy and society at the German
      protestant student union</a> (German), were Karsten Gerloff also gave a
    talk as a guest speaker in front of students of medicine, natural
    sciences, or theology.</li>

    <li>Lucile learnt <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2013/09/23/check-your-regular-expressions/">
      to appreciate regular expressions</a>, and <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2013/09/04/schneier-on-risk/">
      highlighted some quotes by Bruce Schneier</a>, including "We’re afraid of
    risk. It's a normal part of life, but we're increasingly unwilling to
    accept it at any level."</li> 

    <li> Thomas Løcke <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/thomaslocke/2013/09/06/leashes-for-our-necks-and-whips-for-our-backs/">asks
      if we want to live in a world where shadow agencies run amok</a> and
    where our hard-earned taxes are being used to fund leashes for our necks
    and whips for our backs?</li>

     <li>Our Munich Fellowship coordinator Christian Kalkhoff <a
       href="http://www.softmetz.de/2013/09/07/erlaubnis-zur-nutzung-deines-namens-profilbilds-deiner-inhalte-und-informationen/http://www.softmetz.de/2013/09/07/erlaubnis-zur-nutzung-deines-namens-profilbilds-deiner-inhalte-und-informationen/">explains
       why he finally quit facebook</a> (German) after they changed their terms
     of services.</li>

     <li>On a technical level: if you have to dual boot GNU/Linux and Windows 8
     on a machine with <a
       href="/campaigns/generalpurposecomputing/secure-boot-analysis.html">restricted
       boot</a> read the <a
       href="http://seravo.fi/2013/dual-booting-ubuntu-12-04-windows-8-machines-restricted-boot">
       description from our Finnish Fellows</a>.</li>

    <li>If you used GnuCash or HomeBank before for your finances, <a
      href="http://danielpocock.com/postbooks-packages-available">Daniel Pocok
      suggests to have a look at PostBooks</a>, and maybe support their
    crowdfunding campaign for missing features.</li>

    <li>He also looked into <a
      href="http://danielpocock.com/mastering-calendar-and-contact-data-with-free-software-in-the-smartphone-era">
      calendar and contact data with Free Software</a> in the Smartphone
    era.</li>

    <li>Paul Boddie wrote about the <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=430">Neo900</a>, successor of the
    famous N900 mobile phone.</li>

    <li>Guido Günther is <a
      href="http://honk.sigxcpu.org/con/Monitoring_the_temparature_values_of_a__kofen_Pellematic_using_munin.html">
      monitoring a heating system</a> powered by Free Software, and</li>

    <li>Henri Bergius was <a href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/noflo-ardrone/">
      flying a quadrocopter with NoFlo</a>.</li>

    <li>After many years Matija's laptop broke. <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/after-many-years-new-laptop-after-a-decade-a-new-distro-and-thankfully-working-backups">Read
      how he changed his distribution</a> after a decade and the good feeling
    to have working backups.</li>

    <li>Finally he is <a href="
      http://matija.suklje.name/are-copyright-and-other-ip-rights-really-a-natural-right">
      discussing if copyright, patents and state-given monopolies in general
      are natural</a>.</li>

  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: Talk to some friends about how it started!</h2>

<p>As you read on the first paragraph it is 30 years since <a
  href="https://www.gnu.org/gnu/initial-announcement.html"> Richard Stallman
  announced to start with the GNU operating system</a>.  Many people mistakenly
think of <a href="http://computerfloss.com/2013/09/happy-birthday-gnu/">this
  30th anniversary</a> only as a success in a technical way but it is more: GNU
and the philosophy behind it is a social revolution as well.</p>

<p>More people should know about the importance and uniqueness of the development 
GNU has started. So we ask you to talk with your friends, acquaintances and colleagues about 
the <a href="https://www.gnu.org/gnu/gnu.html">history</a> and 
<a href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/philosophy.html">philosophy</a> of GNU project and to reflect 
about which positive side effect of GNU's invention you personally appreciate the most.</p>

<p>Please share your experiences with us, for example by <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/about/">writing a blog post</a> about the talk
with the people you spoke with or sharing your experiences on our 
<a href="/contact/community.html">public mailing lists</a>.</p>


<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date: 2011-06-06 12:32:19 +0200 (Mon, 06 Jun 2011) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
