<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2018-05-02" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - May 2016</title>
</head>
<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201605">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - May 2016</h1>
	<div class="e-content">
		
<h2 id="eu-jeopardises-its-goals-in-standardisation-with-frand-licensing">EU 
jeopardises its goals in standardisation with FRAND licensing</h2>

<p>As a part of the Digital Single Market strategy, the European Commission 
has <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/communication-ict-standardisation-priorities-digital-single-market">published the communication on ICT standardisation 
priorities</a> as one of the key factors in the digital economy. FSFE 
welcomes the overall approach taken in the communication in favour of 
more open standards and a greater inclusion of Free Software communities 
into standardisation processes.</p>

<p>However, the document lacks proper understanding of licensing conditions 
of standard-essential patents in order to include Free Software into 
standard setting processes. In particular, FSFE <a href="fixme:link">expresses 
its concerns in regard to the promotion of so-called "fair, reasonable, 
and non-discriminatory (FRAND)licensing terms</a> that in practice are 
incompatible with Free Software. This way, the document jeopardises every 
effort set by the European Commission to integrate Free Software communities 
into standardisation.</p>

<h2 id="european-commission-vs-google-android">European Commission vs Google Android</h2>

<p>On April 20, the European Commission 
<a href="http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_STATEMENT-16-1506_en.htm?locale=en">outlined 
its charges in regard to Google's businesses practices relating to the 
Android operating system</a>. According to the Commission, Google is 
abusing its dominant market position by pre-installing and setting Google 
Search, Google Play Store and Google Chrome as the default on most Android 
devices sold in Europe. These practices close off ways for competitive 
search engines to access the market.</p>

<p>FSFE has previously <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/20130729.EC.Fairsearch.letter.en.html">raised 
its concerns in regard to the claim against the free-of-charge distribution
of Android</a> that had been raised to the European Commission by a 
coalition of certain online service providers who claimed that this practice 
is harmful to competition. We argued against that claim as it undermines 
the whole essence of Free Software licensing, and are pleased to see that 
the Commission disregarded that claim in its antitrust case against Google.</p>

<h2 id="fsfe-merges-offices-to-berlin">FSFE merges offices to Berlin</h2>

<p>FSFE's history is deeply rooted in Düsseldorf and its surrounding area, 
given the fact that we opened our first office in Düsseldorf. This office 
was FSFE's first administrative center and later became the hub of our 
merchandise activities. Düsseldorf now is the epicenter of one of the 
oldest Fellowship groups and we are very grateful for the support which 
the Fellows and volunteers in the area have given to the FSFE through 
the years.</p>

<p>However, after many years of maintaining two offices, we now concentrate 
our administrative activities in the Berlin office that has been used as 
FSFE's headquarters since several years now. With the closing of the 
Düsseldorf office, all merchandise, administration and <a href="https://fsfe.org/contact/contact.en.html">communication is handled via 
the Berlin office solely</a>.</p>

<h2 id="from-the-community">From the community</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>Guido Arnold, our education team coordinator, summarised legal 
aspects and possible activities to take, when <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2016/04/public-schools-making-ms-office-mandatory/">public schools make MS Office mandatory.</a></p></li>

<li><p>Vitaly Repin <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/vitaly_repin/2016/04/14/course-on-the-road-to-the-free-digital-society-is-available-in-moodle-and-ims-common-cartridge-formats-now/">published 
the course by Richard Stallman "On the Road to the Free Digital Society" 
in Moodle Backup and IMS Common Cartridge formats</a>, and invites everyone 
to give feedback and promote the course through their channels.</p></li>

<li><p>Since Let’s Encrypt has left beta testing, Michal Nazarewicz <a href="http://mina86.com/p/tls-is-a-yes/">uses and promotes this new certificate 
authority which provides free TLS certificates</a>: "If you're running 
your own server there's no excuse not to use TLS".</p></li>

<li><p>Björn Schießle <a href="http://blog.schiessle.org/2016/04/16/installing-wallabag-2-on-a-shared-web-hosting-service/">blogs about a self hostable application for saving web pages, "Wallabag", 
and about its maintenance on a shared web hosting service</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Marcus Moeller explains how to <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mmoeller/2016/04/20/setting-up-a-freedombox-on-bbb-to-host-a-blog/">set up a Freedombox on a Beagle Bone Black in order to self-host a blog 
on freely designed hardware and without the need to use proprietary 
software</a>.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>We have been running the eighth annual election for a Fellowship 
representative who is to represent our community and the FSFE's Fellowship 
in <a href="https://fsfe.org/about/team.en.html#general-assembly">FSFE's 
general assembly</a>. Although we only had one candidate, we like to 
<a href="FIXME:%20Link%20to%20News-item%20of%20elections,%20still%20to%20come">thank 
and congratulate Mirko Boehm to run for the office and being elected</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>We have now over 30 organisations and companies who joined us in 
proposing measures to EU institutions and EU member states to avoid negative 
implications on users' rights and Free Software imposed by the 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/radiodirective/statement.en.html">EU 
Radio Equipment Directive 2014/53/EU, aka 'Radio Lockdown Directive'</a>. 
The joint statement is open to new signatures against negative implications 
that the 'Radio Lockdown Directive' poses on software freedom, users' 
rights, fair competition, innovation, environment, and volunteering.</p></li>

<li><p>FSFE also joined a coalition of organisations that fight the 
negative implementations of the 'Radio Lockdown Directive' in France. 
Together, we signed <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160406.en.html">an 
open letter to the French government and French Telecommunications Regulatory 
Authority (ART)</a> to ensure that the implementation of the 'Radio Lockdown 
Directive' in France will not harm Free Software.</p></li>

<li><p>On our way to become more transparent and inclusive, we published 
our <a href="https://fsfe.org/about/transparency-commitment.en.html">transparency 
commitment</a> in line with the guidelines from Transparency International Germany.</p></li>

<li><p>A lot of our initial structure and founding documents have not 
been updated ever since the FSFE grew from being a small circle of volunteers 
into an organisation with hired staff, with a Fellowship program and a 
community of thousands of people. We now begun to <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/jonas/?p=60">revise our "Self Conception"</a>, to better reflect our grown 
decision-making process. Jonas Öberg, FSFE's executive director, is sharing 
his thoughts on and insights about <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/jonas/?p=50">potential future steps to FSFE's structure and membership</a>on his blog.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/jonas/?p=65">On the backend of our 
work, we have been introducing a ticket system built on OTRS</a>. 
Although at first sight not many people seem to be directly affected by 
this, our whole communication will profit over time from higher control 
of our workflow. Also, it shall be opened to be used by volunteers as well.</p></li>

<li><p>13 - 15 April FSFE's annual legal licensing workshop LLW took place 
in Barcelona, Spain. The event is dedicated to gather legal practitioners from all over the world to dicuss the most challenging issues in and around Free Software 
licensing. This year it had a record number of participants, showing the 
increasing interest and importance of Free Software in software licensing.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take Action</h2>

<p>From September 2 – 4, 2016, there will be happening the first summit 
of FSFE, an event dedicated to our community. To make it a unique and 
appealing experience for everyone, we sent out a <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events/Summit2016/CallForParticipation">Call for 
Participation</a> last week to all our Fellows and on our mailing lists. 
Take your chance and be part of FSFE's main event in 2016 by becoming a 
speaker or a volunteer, by hosting a workshop or another event.</p>

<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software news</h2>

<p>Spain's Ministry of Finance and Public Administrations <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/spain-publishes-file-archive-tool-open-source">published its web-based solution for archiving electronic files under 
Free Software license</a>. France is also not lagging behind and recently 
<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/france-unveils-source-code-income-tax-application">published the source code of the fiscal calculator used by the 
French fiscal administration to calculate the income taxes of individuals 
in France</a> as an outcome of the legal case in Paris' administrative 
court that concluded that a source code of a software written by and for 
public authorities can be considered as a public information that can be 
freely accessed.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the
<a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>
,
<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a>
and
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a>
who enable our work,</p>

<p>your editors Polina Malaja and Erik Albers, <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a></p>
</div>
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2018-05-02"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>

