<html newsdate="2016-10-06" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - October 2016</title>
	</head>
	<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201610">
		
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - October 2016</h1>

<h2 id="words-from-your-editors">Words from your editors</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">
After some changes to the FSFE's internship program in early
September, we're happy to be able to announce an opening for a
<a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160930-01.html">technical intern</a>
with the FSFE. We're seeking an intern who can work with us for three months
in our Berlin office, learning about Free Software and the FSFE, while at
the same time contributing to rewriting parts of our technical infrastructure.
</p>
<p>
In the coming months, we'll announce more internship opportunities and a
good way to get to know about them is to read this newsletter regularly.
Be sure to check out our section on taking action below for some news about
our merchandise sale and information material (we'd love to send you more,
if you've run out!).
</p>

  <h2 id="the-summit">The Summit</h2>

  <p>We're still not over how cool it was to see so many from our
  community join the FSFE Summit in September. It was a good
  experience and we're keen to repeat it. One of the highlights was
  the ending keynote where Julia Reda called out <a href=
  "https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160907-01.html">proprietary
  software as a threat to democracy</a>. Be sure to view the
  keynote and some of the other talks from the Summit, either on
  our <a href=
  "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC68ldbHwL_-5qzETqOaAMWQ">YouTube
  channel</a>, or from our <a href=
  "https://download.fsfe.org/videos/summit2016/">download
  server</a> where you can get the available videos in webm
  format.</p>

  <p>We also celebrated the FSFE's 15th birthday in C-Base with a
  ceremony where we honored many of our local heroes from around
  Europe. C-Base has kindly provided a <a href=
  "https://vimeo.com/181328339">recording of the ceremony</a> if
  you're interested in hearing the story of some of our heroes, all
  of whom you can find working in one of the FSFE's teams today.</p>

  <h2 id="are-you-our-next-technical-intern">Are you our next
  technical intern?</h2>

  <p>As mentioned, we are looking for a technical intern to join
  our team for three months, taking part in rewriting and
  implementing a new account management system. This internship is
  based in Berlin, starting the 1st of January 2017 or as otherwise
  agreed. It's compensated with a basic salary, the details of
  which you can read together with other information in our
  <a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160930-01.html">call
  for a technical intern</a>. We look forward to seeing your
  application!</p>

  <h2 id="from-the-community">From the community</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <p>David Boddie described the experiences he had <a href=
      "http://www.boddie.org.uk/david/www-repo/Personal/Updates/2016/2016-09-01.html">
      exploring alternative operating systems and in particular,
      Inferno</a>.</p>
    </li>

    <li>
      <p>Michał ‘mina86’ Nazarewicz offered a handful of useful
      <a href="https://mina86.com/2016/python-tricks/">Python
      tricks and tips</a></p>
    </li>

    <li>
      <p>Jonas Öberg blogged about <a href=
      "http://blog.jonasoberg.net/code-availability-or-code-contributions/">
      code availability, or code contributions</a> and introduced
      <a href=
      "http://blog.jonasoberg.net/internship-changes-in-the-fsfe/">the
      changes to the FSFE internship program</a>. Subscribe to our
      newsletter, if you haven't done already, in order to receive
      the latest news about all the open internship vacancies in
      the FSFE!</p>
    </li>

    <li>
      <p>Elena "of Valhalla" explains the differences between
      <a href=
      "http://social.gl-como.it/display/3e3ce0df3657cf0f075f102119218743">
      accepting candy from strangers and using gratis software from
      random sources</a>.</p>
    </li>

    <li>
      <p>Polina Malaja blogged about <a href=
      "https://blogs.fsfe.org/polina/2016/09/14/copyright-reform-mo-money-to-publishers-mo-problems-for-everyone-else/">
      the challenges of the EU Copyright reform</a>.</p>
    </li>

    <li>
      <p>Florian Snow <a href=
      "https://blogs.fsfe.org/floriansnow/">shared his memories
      from the 3 days of the FSFE Summit</a> in Berlin, inside and
      outside the BCC.</p>
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h2 id="other-news">Other news</h2>

  <p>Matthew Garrett, board member of the FSF, wrote <a href=
  "http://www.fsf.org/news/free-software-foundation-stresses-necessity-of-full-user-control-over-internet-connected-devices">
  an article</a> stressing the necessity of full user control over
  Internet-connected devices, outlining some necessary practices
  for IoT.</p>

  <h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <p>Polina Malaja, FSFE's policy analyst and legal
      coordinator, together with the FSFE's legal counsel Carlo Piana,
      participated in a workshop on the interactions of Free
      Software and standardisation, organised by the European
      Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) in
      Sophia-Antipolis, France. During the workshop, they worked to
      push for adoption of strong copyleft licenses and to resolve
      some of the tensions around patents.</p>
    </li>

    <li>
      <p>Continuing the practice of being present in events
      organised by other communities, the FSFE was present with an
      Info-booth at the Rotlintstraßenfest in Frankfurt am Main. A
      big thanks to the Fellowship group Rhine/Main for making this
      possible!</p>
    </li>
  </ul>

  <h2 id="take-action">Take action!</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>We have recently collected, sorted and taken stock of some
    leftovers of the merchandise we had in previous years, and
    we've <a href="https://fsfe.org/order/">put these items
    online</a>. For most of the older items, we only have a few
    available, so this is your chance to order some vintage FSFE
    merchandise at a reduced price (look out for the red
    numbers!)</li>

    <li>If you're starting to run out of informational material about
    free software, now may also be a good opportunity to get some
    more. Order some stickers, posters and flyers from our <a href=
    "https://fsfe.org/contribute/spreadtheword">promotional material
    page</a> and we'll get them to you as soon as possible so you can help us
    spread them around your company, your school, the local
    library, at events, or anywhere else where you feel people
    should know about free software.</li>

    <li>If you're not already a Fellow of the FSFE, you should
    consider <a href="http://fsfe.org/join">joining</a>. Our work
    wouldn't be possible without the contribution of our Fellows
    and volunteers!</li>
  </ul>

  <h2 id="the-fsfe-in-the-press">The FSFE in the Press</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>[DE] by Patrick Beuth, Zeit Online, <a href=
    "http://www.zeit.de/digital/internet/2016-09/digitales-rechtemanagement-drm-hp-drucker-tintenpatronen-firmware/komplettansicht">
    HP sabotages its own customers</a></li>

    <li>[DE] by Stefan Krempl, Heise, <a href=
    "http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/Free-Software-Summit-Kampagne-fuer-oeffentliche-Software-in-der-Verwaltung-3313707.html">
    Free Software Summit: Campaign for "Public Software" in Public
    Administrations</a></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Thanks to all the <a href=
  "https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.en.html">volunteers</a>,
  <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
  <a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus.en.html">corporate
  donors</a> who enable our work,</p>

  <p>Your editors, Jonas Öberg and Olga Gkotsopoulou <a href=
  "https://fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

</body>
<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2016-10"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>
</html>
