<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2014-01-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter – January 2014</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1>FSFE Newsletter – January 2014</h1>

	<h2>From Yuletide to Full-Blown Winter</h2>

	<p newsteaser="yes">
		Many hackers (including us, of course!) have been enjoying the various
		festivities occurring around the winter solstice. But, alas!, the time
		to dwell on Christmas presents and enjoy a family recess is no more –
		the Yule has gone, the year has been made anew, and the fight for
		freedom and liberty demands our attention once more. Hence, it is only
		fitting to begin with a short review of what 2014 has got in store for
		us during the next few months.
	</p>

	<p>
		Those fond of celebrations should already have their eyes set on
		February 14, the yearly occasion when our website turns pink and
		heart-laden, and the perfect time to
		<a href="/campaigns/ilovefs/ilovefs.html">hug developers</a> and bring
		loved ones to Free Software and the
		<a href="/fellowship/index.html">Fellowship</a>.
	</p>

	<p>
		Those favouring a more hands-on approach have to wait until late march
		to
		<a href="http://documentfreedom.org/">educate their fellow citizens</a>
		about <a href="/activities/os/os.html">Open Standards</a>. However, it
		is not necessary to despair: our various
		<a href="/campaigns/campaigns.html">ongoing campaigns</a> are always
		looking for new hacktivists. Getting in touch is
		<a href="/contact/contact.html">easy</a>!
	</p>

	<p>
		And while we are on the topic, there will be many opportunities to meet
		our staff, volunteers, and Fellows throughout the year. For starters,
		FSFE is going to be present with a booth at the Free Software conference
		FOSDEM, which takes place on the first weekend of February at Brussels.
		Everyone fancying a chat or running low on
		<a href="/order/order.html">freedom gear</a> should stop by. Those who
		cannot make it to FOSDEM this year should occasionally check the events
		section on <a href="/#id-events">our website</a> for future opportunities to
		meet us.
	</p>

	<h2>Do It Yourself versus Digital Restrictions Management</h2>

	<p>
		While we are sure that many of our readers were either lucky or vocal
		enough to only receive Christmas presents that respect their freedom,
		there are probably some who find themselves in possession of items that
		were neither made by the giver nor appear in our sister's
		<a href="https://www.fsf.org/givingguide/">Holiday Giving Guide</a>.
	</p>

	<p>
		We have a few recommendations for handling such gifts: some of those can
		be liberated (e.g.,
		<a href="/campaigns/android/android.html">Android devices</a>);
		developers working to create free replacements to various proprietary
		systems would most likely appreciate hardware donations (search the web
		for various efforts to liberate various device categories); and you
		might be able to hack such a gift to run Free Software.
	</p>

	<p>
		Whatever you have decided to do with such items, we would love to hear
		about your solutions. We have opened a mailing list
		<a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/discussion/2014-January/009897.html">thread</a>
		on the topic and e-mails to
		<a href="mailto:discussion@fsfeurope.org">discussion@fsfeurope.org</a>
		(please be advised this is a public mailing list) are most welcome. In
		addition to solutions to non-free gifts, we are also looking forward
		to reading about freedom-respecting or DIY gifts you are truly enjoying.
	</p>

	<h2>Something Completely Different</h2>

	<ul>
		<li>
			This newsletter is regularly available in Romanian since December 2013
			. Our associate
			<a href="/associates/associates.html#id-fundația-ceata">Fundația Ceata</a>
			has taken it upon themselves to provide timely translations for which
			we are extremely grateful.
		</li>
		<li>
			From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>:
			<ul>
				<li>
					Our ex-Vice President Henrik Sandklef has been
					<a href="http://sandklef.wordpress.com/2013/12/28/lcd-support-added-in-searduino/">busy</a>
					adding
					<a href="http://searduino.wordpress.com/2013/12/28/partial-lcd-support-in-searduino-not-complete-but-ready-for-use/">LCD support</a>
					to Searduino. The latter post (not on the planet) also serves
					as a call for contributors.
				</li>
				<li>
					Isabel Drost-Fromm's
					‘<a href="http://blog.isabel-drost.de/posts/on-geeks-growing-up.html">On geeks growing up</a>’
					contemplates the meaning of life, or to put it more plainly,
					family-friendliness of various technology conferences. The
					positive role models Isabel has identified deserve a few words
					of encouragement, and to Isabel herself we say naught but
					Inductive Bias rocks!
				</li>
				<li>
					Guido Arnold, Deputy Coordinator of the Education team, has
					collected and summarised November news stories about
					<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2013/12/free-software-in-education-news-november/">Free Software in education</a>.
				</li>
				<li>
					Daniel Pocock has written extensively about WebRTC
					(‘<a href="http://danielpocock.com/free-calling-from-browser-to-mobile">Free calling from browser to mobile with free software</a>’,
					‘<a href="http://danielpocock.com/get-webrtc-going-faster">Get WebRTC going faster</a>’,
					‘<a href="http://danielpocock.com/xwiki-ten-years-and-webrtc">xWiki: 10 years and a WebRTC success story</a>’).
				</li>
				<li>
					Paul Boddie has done the same about Kolab
					(‘<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=606">Adventures in Kolab Packaging and pykolab</a>’,
					‘<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=623">Integrating setup-kolab with Debian Packaging</a>’).
				</li>
				<li>
					The last planet item to warrant an honourable mention in the
					newsletter under this temporary editorship is Jens Lechtenbörger's
					‘<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/jens.lechtenboerger/2013/12/23/openpgp-and-smime/">OpenPGP and S/MIME or Trust and “Trust”</a>’. Jens
					explains why OpenPGP should be preferred over S/MIME for e-mail
					encryption. Acquainting oneself with the explanation is highly
					recommended for anyone making use of, or contemplating the use of,
					e-mail encryption.
				</li>
			</ul>
		</li>
		<li>
			Repentinus, one of our two Fellowship Representatives, is keeping his
			neck warm this winter by wearing a green-black woollen scarf featuring
			the Fellowship Plussy and letters "FSFE". Those among our readers who
			can knit can make themselves a similar scarf by following
			<a href="http://tjadens.blogspot.co.uk/2014/01/knitting-pattern-make-your-own-fsfe.html">the instructions provided by his girlfriend</a>
			(please be advised this link leads to a blog hosted on Blogspot;
			taking appropriate precautions (like using a JavaScript blocker) is
			recommended). The rest of our readers can either learn to knit or have
			someone knit this scarf for them.
		</li>
	</ul>

	<h2>Giving for Freedom</h2>

	<p>
		This newsletter started with a short overview of annual events waiting
		us in the next few months. Such celebrations, while fun and educational,
		require the combined efforts of volunteers and our staff to organise.
		In addition to requiring staff time, activities hosted as part of the
		celebrations require funds. Furthermore, in addition to the fun
		celebrations, we require funds to keep our continuous campaigns running,
		lobby for Free Software, advise developers on Free Software licensing,
		and educate technology companies on Free Software and licence
		compliance. Unfortunately, we have not yet secured our budget for 2014.
		Our readers considering supporting our work can either
		<a href="/donate/onetime-donation.html">make a one-time donation</a> or
		<a href="/fellowship/join.html">join the Fellowship</a>. We thank all
		our existing donors and Fellows!
	</p>

	<p>
		Free New Year!<br />
		<a href="/about/ojasild/ojasild.html">Heiki Ojasild</a> -
		<a href="www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a>
	</p>
	
	<p>
		-- <br />
		<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
		<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
		<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
		<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
		<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a>
	</p>
</body>

<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
	<tag>Repentinus</tag>
</tags>

</html>
