<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2016-01-28" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - February 2016</title>
</head>
<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201602">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - February 2016</h1>
	<div class="e-content">


<h2 id="fsfe-turns-15">FSFE turns 15</h2>

<p>In 2016, the Free Software Foundation Europe is looking forward towards 
an exciting year. This is the year when we are celebrating our 15th birthday 
and that will give us the chance to look back, to see and show how your 
support brought us here. However, we are also looking forward to mastering 
the challenges ahead.</p>

<p>Since 2001, a lot has evolved for the good, including the changes 
that we could not think of <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2001q2/000002.html">once a small team of volunteers from different countries decided to come 
together in the Villa Vogelsang in Essen, Germany, and to found the Free 
Software Foundation Europe</a>. Since then, this initial team of activists 
grew together as friends, <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20100510-01.en.html">FSFE 
received the Theodor Heuss Medal for our work for freedom in the information 
society</a>, we became an influential voice on national and European 
level, we have our third president in office and we became a European 
wide organisation with a permanent staff team. All of this would not have 
been possible without the help of you, our Fellows. Your advice, your 
support, your financial contribution, your local activities, your viral 
marketing, your campaign projects and all the time you dedicated to us 
are priceless and what made us strong. We are overwhelmed and happy that 
in 2016, the Free Software Foundation Europe is carried upon thousands 
of shoulders. This is why we dedicate this year to you, our Fellows, 
our community.</p>

<p>We will come up with some activities and stories for you as a thank 
you during the year and in memory of our 15 years of existence. Let's 
start this with celebrating the I love Free Software day on February 14 
as colourfully as possible. <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/ilovefs/">Join 
us in spreading love towards Free Software and their developers</a>. 
And <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/FSFE%20summit">don't miss to already 
save the date from September 2nd to 4th</a> as a core event in 2016. 
This is the weekend we will organise our first FSFE summit - for and by you. 
More information will follow.</p>

<h2 id="document-freedom-day-is-given-into-the-hands-of-the-digital-freedom-foundation">Document 
Freedom Day is given into the hands of the Digital Freedom Foundation</h2>

<p>Half as old as the FSFE is our Document Freedom Day campaign, celebrated 
for the first time <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2008/news-20080220-01">in 
2008 to oppose the adoption of Microsoft's OOXML standard</a> - and then 
turned itself into an annual day to celebrate Open Standards. During the 
years we had hundreds events all over the globe, we have seen impressive 
artwork, inspiring comics and videos and we have seen political parties, 
companies and non-profit organisations using Document Freedom Day to let 
the world know about the power and freedom of interoperability.</p>

<p>In 2016, however, <a href="http://documentfreedom.org/news/2016/news-20160122-01.html">the FSFE hands over Document Freedom Day campaign to the Digital Freedom Foundation</a>, 
the organisation that is best known for organising the Software Freedom 
Day. This way, the FSFE sees the potential to further broaden Document 
Freedom Day as the international day of Open Standards and to further 
decentralise the campaign's concept. This year, Document Freedom Day will 
be on March 30, 2016.</p>

<h2 id="meps-vote-for-more-free-software-in-public-sector">MEPs vote for
 more Free Software in public sector</h2>
 
<p>On 19 January, the European Parliament adopted in Plenary its 
own-initiative report "Towards a Digital Single Market" prepared by the 
co-rapporteurs Kaja Kallas (ALDE) from the Industry, Research and Energy 
Committee (ITRE) and Evelyne Gebhardt (S&amp;D) from Internal Market and 
Consumers Protection Committee (IMCO). The FSFE's policy team has amended 
the draft report and is pleased to see that the final version adopted in 
the Plenary includes several positive statements concerning Free Software.</p>

<p>In particular, the report urges the European Commission and the Council 
of the EU to increase the share of Free Software and its reuse in public 
administrations as a solution to increase interoperability. The report 
also promotes the security advantages of Free Software, and calls the EU 
to commit to the increased use of Free Software in educational establishments 
and public administrations. We hope that the European Commission will 
follow the example of the Parliament and will implement the recommendations 
to increase the use of Free Software in public sector.</p>

<h2 id="out-of-the-community">Out of the community</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>Daniel Pocock <a href="http://danielpocock.com/do-you-own-your-phone-or-it-owns-you">blogs 
about the freedom to leave your phone offline or at home</a>, and argues 
why you should start with buying a watch.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="http://matija.suklje.name/i-am-using-lets-encrypt-on-my-server-now">Hook 
writes about his positive experience with switching to Let's Encrypt 
certificates for his server</a> and comes up with some links for more 
information to do it yourself.</p></li>

<li><p>Many of us feel sad these days about the loss of Ian Murdock. His 
contributions to the world of Free Software and the Debian system are 
without end. <a href="http://danielpocock.com/ian-murdock-police-brutality">Daniel 
Pocock gathered some background, feelings and other people's tributes to 
Ian Murdock on his blog</a>.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mmoeller/2015/12/15/freedomvote-a-summary/">Marcus 
Möller reports and gives a summary about Freedomvote</a> - a successful 
'ask you candidates' campaign that the FSFE Switzerland was running for 
this years elections.</p></li>

<li><p>Erik Albers made his first experiences with FirefoxOS and asks 
<a href="http://blog.3rik.cc/2016/01/put-freedom-into-firefox-os-marketplace/">Mozilla 
to put freedom into FirefoxOS market place</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>The <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/FellowshipEvents/Berlin/2016-01-16-Free-Software-Installation">FSFE group Berlin made a Free Software installation party and liberated 
23 PC's with Debian</a> that will be given to refugee organisations and 
schools.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>FSFE <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160118-01.en.html">provided 
the European Commission input on setting priorities in ICT standards and 
answered to the public consultation on the adoption of a Priority ICT 
Standards Plan</a>. In order for the EU to achieve a true digital single 
market that is interoperable and pro-competitive, there is a need for 
standards that are open, minimalistic and implementable with Free Software. 
Other points that have been risen are that a reference implementation is 
published under a Free Software licence, that all software developed with 
public funds is to be released as Free Software, and that harmful licensing 
practices such as FRAND should be avoided in the fields of software, 
internet and the web.</p></li>

<li><p>Together with April and several other organisations, <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2015/news-20151203-01.en.html">FSFE signed a joint 
disagreement against the partnership agreement signed between France's 
ministry of education and Microsoft</a> about IT solutions in school. 
The partnership revolves around teachers' training for mastering Microsoft 
environment, the provision of a cloud ecosystem and an e-learning platform 
which in total amounts to complete control of IT in French schools under 
the supervision of Microsoft. With this agreement the ministry is forcing 
schools and pupils to a particular proprietary vendor.</p></li>

<li><p><a href="https://events.ccc.de/congress/2015/wiki/Assembly:Free_Software_Foundation_Europe">FSFE 
had an assembly at the 32nd Chaos Communication Congress</a> in Hamburg, 
Germany, <a href="http://blog.3rik.cc/2015/12/fsfe-assembly-during-chaos-communication-congress-32c3/">including 12 self-organized sessions and the GNU/Burger</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Just before Christmas and the completion of the EU Data Protection 
package, all members of the European Parliament received our e-mail 
self-defense leaflet in their mailboxes. This way we wanted to remind 
policymakers <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/polina/?p=69">how important encryption is to 
everyone's right to privacy</a>.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take Action</h2>

<ul>	
<li><p>In 2016 we have 15 years of FSFE and 5 years of I love Free Software 
Day: <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/ilovefs/">Join us in celebrating 
Free Software by expressing your appreciation towards Free Software 
developers on February 14</a>! #ILoveFS</p></li>

<li><p>As every year, we will have a booth at FOSDEM and a lot of members 
of our community will give talks or come to listen to talks. It is one of 
the best chances throughout the year to meet many people from the FSFE.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software news</h2>

<p>An amendment to the France's upcoming law for the Digital Republic 
that <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/france-parliament-source-code-should-be-made-public">obliges public administrations to publish the source code of its 
custom-built software solutions</a> was adopted by France's parliament. 
Meanwhile another French city, <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/grenoble-commits-free-software">Grenoble, commits to Free Software</a> that is said to help to increase 
citzen participation, to cut costs, and facilitate the sharing of knowledge. 
Speaking of licences, <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/open-source-initiative-approves-quebec-licence">family 
of Free Software licenses has expanded by three new licences written by 
the government of the Canadian province of Quebec</a>. This should encourage 
the province’s public administrations to share their ICT solutions.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the
<a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>
,
<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a>
and
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a>
who enable our work,</p>

<p>your editors Polina Malaja and Erik Albers <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a></p>
</div>
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2016-01-28"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
