<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2013-07-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - July 2012</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - July 2012</h1>

<h2>"Secure Boot": Who will control your next computer?</h2>

<p>The FSFE's goal is to ensure that the owners of IT devices are always in full
and sole control of them. This fundamental principle is recently being
challenged. For maintaining sustained growth in the development and use of
software, the broad availability of general purpose computers is crucial. This
month the FSFE published <a
  href="/campaigns/generalpurposecomputing/secure-boot-analysis.html">its
  "Secure Boot" analysis</a>.</p>

<p>We demand that before purchasing a device, buyers must be informed concisely
about the technical measures implemented in this device, as well as the
specific usage restrictions and their consequences for the owner.</p>

<p>Furthermore, we strongly recommend to exclusively purchase IT devices which
grant their owners full, sole and permanent control over security subsystems
(e. g. signature-based usage restrictions), in order to maintain the ability to
install arbitrary software and lastly to retain exclusive control over ones own
data.</p>


<h2>After 8 years of helping the European Commission: Microsofts looses</h2>

<p>Microsoft spent over 3.000.000.000 EUR to buy third parties out of <a
  href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">this case</a>. But for a decade, the
Free Software Foundation Europe continued participating, to assert the rights
of Free Software developers to access interoperability information. Especially
for the Samba Team, which provides a Free Software workgroup server competing
with Microsoft's proprietary product, so people can use Free Software
to share files, and printers in a network.</p>

<p>Microsoft refused our demands until the very end. But this month the
European Court of Justice has ordered Microsoft to finally pay a record fine of
860 million euros for using its near-monopoly on the desktop to keep rivals out
of the workgroup server market.</p>

<p><a href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">This decision</a> establishes
that we were right: Receiving the interoperability information was our right as
Free Software community, not a concession by Microsoft. To <a
  href="http://piana.eu/msft_ends">quote Carlo Piana</a>, who represented the
FSFE and the Samba Team:</p>

<blockquote><p>
  We always said "They are willing to deal with everybody, but those who
  compete with them." Meaning, proposing conditions against Free Software is an
  abuse. Microsoft replied "change your business model to suit our licensing
  scheme and you'll be served", or "Free what? Who the hell are you, what's
  your turnover", or dismissals like this. Apart from annoying, they were
  wrong.</p></blockquote>

<h2>Fair play! In Football and in Finland!</h2>

<p>Interesting time in the European Free Software Championship: <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2012/06/euro2012-in-free-software-quarter-final-france-vs-germany/">Germany
  vs. France 4:3</a>, <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2012/06/euro2012-in-free-software-quarter-final-italy-vs-iceland/">Italy
  vs. Iceland 4:5</a>, <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2012/06/euro2012-in-free-software-quarter-final-russia-vs-spain/">Russia
  vs. Spain 2:3</a>, and <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2012/06/euro2012-in-free-software-quarter-final-norway-vs-estonia/">Norway
  vs. Estonia 4:3</a>. The referee Guido Arnold did not report any fouls
during the games. Outside the games the FSFE also works on fairness.</p>

<p>We have <a href="/news/2012/news-20120619-01.html">started an initiative to
  advance fair public procurements in Finland</a>, to lower the barrier for
Free Software in the Finnish public sector. The initiative concentrates on IT
related procurement notices that require brand instead of defining
functionality required by the procurer. To date the FSFE has skimmed over 300
procurement notices, and of those taken into closer analysis, 14 have been
found to clearly violate the Finnish procurement law. These violating notices
explicitly asked for tenders of specific brands of software manufacturers or
products and thus discriminate all other brands and manufacturers, effectively
stopping free competition.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>In the upcomming month the FSFE will be present at the <a
    href="http://2012.rmll.info/">RMLL</a> (Libre Software Meeting) in Geneva,
  and as you can see on <a href="https://fsfe.org/events/">our event page</a>
  Richard Stallman is giving talks in the Czech Republic, Germany, and
  Spain.</li>
  
  <li>The FSFE was <a href="/news/2012/news-20120607-01.html">asking activists
    across Europe</a> to protest against the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade
  Agreement (ACTA), so the European Parliament finally rejects this
  controversial treaty, which would greatly harm citizens' rights. The
  Parliament will hold a plenary vote on ACTA on 4th of July.</li>

  <li>The draft for the UK Communications Bill outlines how civil servants are
  intent on surveilling the internet communications of British citizens. <a
    href="/news/2012/news-20120616-01.html">Sam Tuke</a> wrote about how to use
  Free Software to protect your privacy online, regardless of the measures that
  the Coalition may impose upon you or your telecoms providers.</li>
  
  <li>The FSFE's former legal coordinators <a
    href="https://lwn.net/Articles/501490/">Shane Coughlan launched
    OpenRelief</a>.  The project is aimed at developing
  inexpensive—"disposable"—drone aircraft to assist relief teams in detecting
  people, changes in terrain, smoke, radiation, and other conditions in places
  that may be difficult or dangerous for on-the-ground exploration.</li>

  <li>The FSFE's president <a href="
    http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/06/04/common-sense-in-the-basque-country/">Karsten
    Gerloff welcomes</a> the Basque Country's move to introduce a policy that
  software developed with public funds will be released as Free Software by
  default.</li>

  <li><a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus/english/2012/06/02/linuxtag-akademy-2012/">After
    meeting other Fellows at Linuxtag in Berlin</a>, Heiki Ojasild decided to
  held a <a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders</a> sprint at Akademy in
  Tallinn, Estonia. On July 4th <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus/english/2012/06/16/fsfe-pdf-readers-sprint-at-akademy-2012/">
    everyone is invited</a> to <a
    href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfsprint.html">follow our PDF Readers Sprint
    Guide</a> stopping public bodies from restricting the users' freedom and
  unfairly distorting the competition in favour of certain proprietary software
  makers.</li>

  <li>A bit sarcastic, but some people are woundering <a
    href="http://blog.crysys.hu/2012/06/stuxnet-duqu-flame-open-source-license-questions-v0/">
    who was violating the GNU GPL with StuxNet?</a></li>

  <li>A selection from the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">Fellowship blog
    aggregation</a>:</li>

  <ul>

    <li>Have you tried turning it off and on again? Well <a
      href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/how-do-i-turn-this-off/">sometimes it
      gets complicated how to do so</a>.</li>

    <li>US Judge says API not copyrightable: A Federal Judge for the Northern
    District of California has ruled that the source code that declare a method
    to invoke the same function as in the API is not subject to copyright. Read
    more in <a href=" http://piana.eu/api">Carlo Piana's article</a>, and learn
    why copyright in software is not the same copyright as the one granted to
    literary works.</li>

    <li>Hannes Hauswedell wrote a triology (<a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2012/06/04/a-versatile-open-and-future-proof-audio-setup-part-0/">part
      0</a> <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2012/06/06/a-versatile-open-and-future-proof-audio-setup-part-1-overview/">part
      1</a>, and <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2012/06/14/a-versatile-open-and-future-proof-audio-setup-part-2-storage/">part
  2</a>) about a versatile, open and future-proof audio setup.</li>

    <li>Fellowship representative <a
      href="http://blog.hugoroy.eu/2012/06/13/facebook-update-their-terms-of-service-but-were-watching-them/">
      Hugo Roy is commenting on Facebook's updates the Terms of Service</a>
    (that is the document most people never read, but everyone agrees to when
    they sign up to services online)</li> 

    <li>Why is Nokia laying off 10.000 employees, including 700 core Qt
    developers? Mirko Böhm analysis this in the article <a
      href="http://www.agile-workers.com/web/2012/06/leadership-strategy-and-qt/">"Leadership,
      Strategy and Qt"</a>.  </li>

  </ul>
</ul>


<h2>Get Active: Who is as cool as Bjarni?</h2>

<p>Every time your editor reads <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews">a Fellowship interview</a>
he feels proud to work for the FSFE with all those amazing people. Again this month
when <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=605">Bjarni Runar
  Einarsson was interviewed</a> about PageKite, an application which
allows the publication of websites stored on personal computers. <a
  href="http://pagekite.net/">PageKite</a> can be combined with other Free
Software to realise decentralisation.</p>

<p>Please <a href="mailto:editors@fsfeurope.org">suggest Chris Woolfrey and Sam
  Tuke</a> other Fellows for an interview. You can also participate in our <a
  href="/contribute/editors/editors.html">editors team</a> to help interviewing
people and editing other publications. And finally, if you know interesting
people in the Free Software community who are not yet Fellows (it is hard to
belief, but your editor heard rumours they still exist), convience them to
become a Fellow, so we can make new interesting interviews for you.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
