<html newsdate="2016-08-08" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - August 2016</title>
	</head>
	<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201608">
		
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - August 2016</h1>

<h2 id="free-and-open-source-security-audit-in-the-eu-needs-feedback- from-free-software-communities">"Free and Open Source Security Audit" 
in the EU needs feedback from Free Software communities</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">The goal of the "Free and Open Source Security Audit" (FOSSA) pilot 
project is to increase the security of Free Software used by  
European institutions. The FSFE has been following the project since 
early 2014. Recently, the European Commission 
<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/eu-fossa/og_page/project-deliveries">
published the first round of deliverables based on their
interviews with stakeholders</a>. While the FSFE is in full support of 
this European initiative, the implementation of the project leaves us 
concerned. FOSSA's first analysis lacks an understanding of Free 
Software; it includes several factual errors; and it was based on poorly 
conducted general interviews. <a href="https://k7r.eu/fossa-now-we-need-feedback-by-the-real-experts/">FSFE President Matthias Kirschner</a> and 
<a href="https://creative-destruction.me/2016/07/11/eu-fossa-needs-your-help-a-free-software-community-call-to-action/">FSFE Fellowship 
Representative Mirko Böehm</a>, who were both interviewed for the project,
have summarised the most evident shortcomings in the recent 
FOSSA publications. However, looking from another perspective: FOSSA is 
still in its first stages and with the help of more Free Software 
experts, we can get FOSSA going in the right direction. The FSFE will 
continue to closely follow FOSSA's upcoming implementations. In case you have 
any comments or feedback concerning the initiative, please do not 
hesitate to share your thoughts with us on our 
<a href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/discussion">
discussion list</a> or directly to the attention of Matthias Kirschner. 
This way, we will make sure that all relevant concerns will be communicated 
to the EU.</p>

<h2 id="italy-plans-to-stop-its-explicit-support-for-free-software-in-e-government">
Italy plans to stop its explicit support for Free Software 
in e-Government</h2>

<p>The government of Italy is planning to <a href="http://www.funzionepubblica.gov.it/articolo/riforma-della-pa/10-02-2016/codice-dellamministrazione-digitale">
revise the provision in the Digital Administration Law that requires
public administrations to prioritise reusable, Free Software-based 
software solutions</a>. The changes also concern the publication and 
maintenance of a list of open ICT standards that are used by public administrations. Following
this proposal would mean the government will no longer require the national agency 
for the Digitisation of the Public Sector (AGID) to issue binding opinions on 
interoperability, or to prioritise Free Software. Members of the 
Italian Parliament have raised their concerns in regard to the proposed changes. 
FSFE's General Counsel Carlo Piana has previously 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2014/news-20140116-01.en.html">advised 
Italian authorities on the guidelines of implementation of Digital Administration Law
</a>, and contested the government's plans <a href="http://www.techeconomy.it/2016/07/07/bulgaria-open-italia-qualche-passo-dietro/">in his letter to Tech Economy</a> (in Italian).
</p>

<h2 id="from-the-community">From the community</h2>

<ul>
<li>Daniel Pocock explains security problems with SMS and phone 
verification, and asks 
<a href="https://danielpocock.com/how-many-mobile-phone-accounts-will-be-hijacked-this-summer">how many mobile phone accounts will be hijacked 
this summer</a>.</li>

<li>Hannes Hauswedell explains how you can <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/h2/2016/07/27/retroactively-replacing-git-subtree-with-git-submodule/">
retroactively replace git subtree with git submodule</a>.</li>
	
<li>Polina Malaja sums up the creation of the European Cyber Security Organisation (ECSO) and 
<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/polina/2016/07/11/ec-free-software-to-enhance-cybersecurity/">
explains why many security concerns can be significantly decreased by using Free 
Software as much as possible</a>.</li>

<li>Daniel Pocock explains <a href="https://danielpocock.com/help-monitoring-packages-in-debian-and-ubuntu">how you can help with 
monitoring packages in Debian and Ubuntu.</a> </li>

<li>Wolfgang Romey writes about <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/wromey/2016/07/16/anschlussfrage-warum-sind-nachhaltige-gerate-zudem-noch-technisch-ruckstandig/">
the sustainability of technical devices and their need for Free Software</a> (German).</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>	
<li>Early this summer, the FSFE co-signed a letter in support of strong 
net neutrality together with 72 other organisations. The European Commission, however, 
seems to endorse the weak net neutrality demands proposed by the coalition 
of 17 biggest EU Internet Service Providers (ISP) in the so-called '5G manifesto'. 
Our policy analyst Polina Malaja <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/polina/2016/07/15/on-carrots-and-sticks-5g-manifesto/">blogged about the worrisome direction 
of watering down strong net neutrality in the name of 'innovation'</a>. </li>

<li>Matthias gave a talk at the Technical University of Berlin about 
the importance of Free Software and presented some of the highlights of FSFE's work.</li>

<li>FSFE's Italian team was present with a booth at Wikimania 2016 in Esino Larino, Italy.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take action!</h2>

<p>From August 1st, a new German law will allow users to freely choose 
their router device. The FSFE wants to ensure everybody knows about their new 
rights and is <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20160725-01.en.html">
asking users to report cases in which internet service providers (ISP) try to 
avoid the new regulation</a>. The new regulation was designed to eliminate
 previous ambiguity around the practice of "compulsory routers" 
imposed on the users by ISPs. However, it is necessary to ensure that 
the new law is implemented.</p>

<p>If you are a client of a German internet provider, we ask you to exercise 
your new right and start using an alternative device, ideally one that runs
Free Software. Please provide us feedback whether you had any issues about 
running a new router and help us to collect it in our
<a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/CompulsoryRouters/Implementation/Germany">wiki page</a>.
In case you don't have an alternative device at hand, the FSFE can also provide some testing devices.
Please refer to our wiki page for more information on this.</p>
 
<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software news</h2>

<p>The European Commission will <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/new-european-contest-promote-it-reuse">reward existing IT solutions 
that have been developed and shared by public administrations, and that 
can be further reused across Europe due to the use of Free Software licenses</a>. 
Adullact, the French organisation for public administrations using free 
software, set up Comptoir-du-Libre.org,<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/new-site-promote-proven-open-source-ict-tools"> a website that aims to
help public administrations’ IT decision-makers to switch to Free Software</a>. 
The city council of <a href="http://www.miciudadreal.es/2016/05/25/el-pleno-acuerda-caminar-hacia-el-software-libre/">the Spanish city of Ciudad Real voted in favor of a
resolution to switch all 400 workstations of the city's administration 
to Free Software</a> (Spanish). The Open Knowledge Foundation Germany, in 
cooperation with the German Federal Ministry of Education and 
Research, started the <a href="https://prototypefund.de/en/">Prototype fund</a>, which supports Free Software 
projects with a grant of up to €30.000, available for anyone with primary residence in Germany.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.en.html">volunteers</a>, 

<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and <a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus.en.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,</p>

<p>your editors Polina Malaja and Erik Albers, <a href="https://fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

</body>
<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2017-08"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>
</html>
