<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2010-07-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - July 2010</title>
</head>
<body>
  
<h1>FSFE Newsletter - July 2010</h1>
  
<p newsteaser="yes">This edition covers Neelie Kroes' statement about Open
  Standards, the Free Software discussion in Saxony (Germany), and the
  relicensing of WebM to be GPL compatible, and asks you all to keep in touch
  with your politicians about Free Software issues.</p>

<p>Beside that, FSFE's strategic decision making body, the <a
    href="/about/members.html">General Assembly</a> (GA) ,
  met in Bozen, Italy. The various outcomes of this meeting will become
  apparent in the next months and years. On the operational side we organised 
  <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/FellowshipEvents">Fellowship meetings</a> in
  Tampere (Finland), Göteburg (Sweden), Paris, Lille (France), Berlin,
  Düsseldorf, Siegen, (Germany), as well as a Fellowship jabber meeting about
  ACTA. Stian published a new <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/david-reyes-samblas-martinez/">Fellowship
    interview with David Reyes Samblas Martinez</a>, in which he answers
  questions on hardware manufacturing, e-learning and Free Software
  politics.</p>

<h2>"Proprietary technology is a waste of money"</h2>

<p>No, this is not a quote from someone out of the Free Software community.
  As <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/?p=359">Karsten reported in his
    article</a> it was Neelie Kroes, European Commission’s vice president, who
  commented at the Open Forum Europe (OFE) meeting in Brussels on 10 June. She
  also said that:</p>

<blockquote><p>"Many authorities have found themselves unintentionally locked
    into proprietary technology for decades. After a certain point that
    original choice becomes so ingrained that alternatives risk being
    systematically ignored, no matter what the potential benefits. This is a
    waste of public money that most public bodies can no longer
    afford."</p></blockquote>

<p>Kroes also backed up <a
    href="/activities/os/def.html">our definition of Open
    Standards</a>. She made clear that "truly open" standards "do not come with
  any constraints for implementers". This is important as it means that
  programmers can implement a standard in Free Software; Microsoft and others
  have been trying to convince the Commission that a standard is "open" even if
  it cannot be implemented in Free Software. These developments are good news -
  please share them!</p>

<h2>"Free" State of Saxony argues against Free Software</h2>

<p>Already in May German politicians had a discussion about Free Software in
  the Free State of Saxony's state parliament. I (Matthias) published an <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=589">analysis about this
    discussion</a> (in German). The state government talks about strategic
  reasons against Free Software, but does not name any of them. The CDU and the
  FDP say they do not want to influence the market. On the other hand the state
  government educates all their pupils with software from a monopolist and
  advertises Adobe's proprietary software on their websites. In their tenders
  they do not ask for Free Software, but complain that there are too few Free
  Software service providers and programs. Beside that they use the term
  "market standards" against Free Software.</p>

<p>That such discussions happen in parliament are a very good sign. They mean
  that politicians have to think about Free Software, and that we can all enter
  discussion with politicians about Free Software, too. That is why we asked
  people from Saxony to send their politicians feedback on the discussion, and
  to write them what they liked about the discussion and ask questions like
  ‘when politicians talk about strategic reasons against Free Software, what
  are these reasons?’. The speech by Neelie Kroes quoted above is also
  something that you can point politicians to.</p>

<h2>Free Video Formats / Software licenses</h2>

<p>In May, Google <a
    href="http://www.fsf.org/blogs/licensing/googles-updated-webm-license">Updated
    the license for their WebM project</a> to make it GPL-compatible. As
  explained <a href="/news/nl/nl-201006.en.html">in the last
    issue</a> WebM is important so users do not have to install the non-free
  flash plugins anymore, but have a free video format to play and encode
  videos.</p>

<p>WebM was already Free Software, as the rightsholders stated in the licence
  that users have the freedom to use, study, share, and improve it. The problem
  was that its license was not compatible with the <a
    href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl.html">GNU General Public
    License (GPL)</a>.</p>

<p>There are <a href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/">a lot of Free
    Software licenses</a>, but the GNU GPL is the most famous Free Software
  copyleft license and is used by a large percentage of Free Software. It
  ensures the four freedoms and adds the condition that those freedoms remain
  intact in further distribution of the software.</p>

<p>If people use the same licence or at least GPL-compatible licences, then
  programmers can exchange code freely, and easily, so programmers do not have
  to reinvent the wheel again but can use already existing code. That is why it
  is so important that programmers use the <a
    href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl.html">GNU AGPL</a>, GPL, <a
    href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html">LGPL</a>, or a compatible Free
  Software license for their software. There is also an article by David
  Wheeler which is worth reading, <a
    href="http://www.dwheeler.com/essays/gpl-compatible.html">why you should
    make your software GPL compatible</a>, like WebM does now.</p>

<h2>Get active: Support us gathering speeches about Free Software</h2>

<p>Our mission is to explain the concept of Free Software to as many people as
  possible. This month the German team had a booth at the GNU/Linuxtag in
  Berlin and explained Free Software to all the different visitors, gave
  interviews and speeches about "Freedom in the cloud" and common
  misunderstandings about Free Software. Depending on the audience you should
  use slightly modified explanations. To support Free Software supporters, we
  are providing links to <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Video">video</a> and <a
    href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Audio">audio</a> files, as well as <a
    href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Transcripts">transcripts of speeches</a>.</p>

<p><a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">As Fellow</a> you automatically have an
  account there, but you can just <a
    href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/UserGuide?action=newaccount">register for a
    guest account</a> and help us to make those pages a good resource for
  people who want to learn from others how to best explain the benefits of
  software freedom.</p>

<p>Regards,<br /> <a href="/about/kirschner/kirschner.html">Matthias Kirschner</a>- FSFE</p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>  
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>  
  <tag content="GNU GPL">GnuGpl</tag>  
  <tag>Licensing</tag>  
  <tag>EuropeanCommission</tag>  
  <tag content="Open Forum Europe">OpenForumEurope</tag>  
  <tag>WebM</tag>
</tags>

<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
