<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2016-06-04" type="newsletter">

<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - June 2015</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201506">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – June 2015</h1>
	<div class="e-content">

	<h2>For whom the bell tolls?</h2>

	<p newsteaser="yes">
		On the first Wednesday of May, a coalition of digital liberties
		organizations, including FSFE, and a multitude of individual activists
		held the
		<a href="https://www.defectivebydesign.org/dayagainstdrm">International Day Against DRM</a> 2015
		to raise awareness about digital restrictions management, a pervasive
		and deeply entrenched mechanism designed to plunder the citizenry of
		the concept of ownership.
	</p>
	
	<p>
		Along with numerous other defenders of consumer rights and digital
		liberties we published
		<a href="/news/2015/news-20150506-01.html">a statement asking
		legislators to guarantee the traditional right to tinker</a> with our
		property. This was necessitated by both the prior steady erosion of the
		rights to repair and modify our belongings and the renewed push by
		various manufacturing companies, like
		<a href="http://copyright.gov/1201/2015/comments-032715/class%2021/John_Deere_Class21_1201_2014.pdf">John Deere</a>, one of the largest
		manufacturers of agricultural equipment, to deny their customers the
		right to modify their own property in whatever way the customers wish,
		using bad laws like the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which
		forbid consumers to circumvent or remove certain defects from their
		purchases.
	</p>

	<h2>FSFE is looking for a systems architect</h2>

	<p>
		Due to sustained growth we have experienced in the last few years, our
		infrastructure has developed into a state where it is no longer able to
		fulfil our needs. Therefore, we are
		<a href="/news/2015/news-20150527-01.html">looking for a systems architect</a>
		to help us document our existing infrastructure dependencies, develop
		this into a maintainable architecture, and help our system administrators
		migrate our services to the new architecture.
	</p>
	
	<p>
		If you have a good grasp of Free Software, creating technical
		documentation, virtualization, MTAs, database servers, and web services
		and you wish to help us ensure scalability and continued availability
		of both Fellowship services and our internal tools, then
		you are welcome to apply by contacting our Executive Director,
		<a href="/about/oberg/index.html">Jonas Öberg</a>. This is your chance
		to gain a deeper understanding of the technical challenges faced by our
		volunteers and staff, and help us overcome these hurdles!
	</p>

	<h2>Something completely different</h2>

	<ul>
		<li>
			Guido Arnold, FSFE's edu-team coordinator, held a keynote at DORS/CLUC
			in Zagreb about Free Software adoption in education throughout Europe
			and wrote <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2015/06/free-software-in-education-keynote-at-dorscluc/">a short post about it</a>.
		</li>
		<li>
			Our President Karsten Gerloff has written a blog post explaining
			<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2015/06/01/facebook-offers-to-send-you-encrypted-emails-this-wont-help-you/">why Facebook's new option to
			encrypt e-mail notifications using the OpenPGP standard is useless</a>.
			The bottom line is that on Facebook you are the product and the new
			“feature” will neither guard your data from overreaching law
			enforcement nor advertisers willing to pay.
		</li>
		<li>
			Our <a href="/associates/associates.html">associate</a>
			<a href="https://ceata.org/">Fundaţia Ceata</a> is organizing a
			conference called <a href="http://coliberator.ro/2015/">Coliberator '15</a>
			from June 6th to 7th in Bucharest, Romania. The conference has
			featured our president Karsten Gerloff and the founder of the Free
			Software movement, Richard M. Stallman, as keynote speakers during
			previous editions.
		</li>
		<li>From the planet aggregation:</li>
		<ul>
			<li>
				Our Fellow Kevin Keijzer writes about
				<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/the_unconventional/2015/05/08/flashing-coreboot-on-a-t60-with-a-raspberry-pi/">liberating a Thinkpad T60p</a>
				for another Fellow, André, who
				<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/ao/2015/05/29/how-i-got-a-thinkpad-t60p-coreboot-gnu-linux-libre-trisquel-laptop/">reviews the experience</a>.
			</li>
			<li>
				Daniel Pocock is showing people how to
				<a href="http://danielpocock.com/quick-start-blender-video-editing">use Blender for video editing</a>.
			</li>
			<li>
				Max Mehl, a former intern, is writing about
				<a href="http://blog.mehl.mx/2015/technology-and-free-software-in-tz/">his current volunteering experience in Africa</a>.
				Max offers a rather strange, but eye-opening perspective on the way
				Tanzanians perceive technology.
			</li>
		</ul>
	</ul>

	<h2>Get active: call on legislators to oppose TTIP, CETA</h2>

	<p>
		This newsletter started with DRM; it will also end with DRM:
		unscrupulous actors are attempting to use secretly negotiated trade
		agreements TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership) and
		CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) to make it extremely
		difficult for future governments to get rid of current bans on
		circumventing digital restrictions mechanisms. Instead, they would force
		governments to impose ever-harsher penalties on anyone who dares to
		tinker with their property.
	</p>

	<p>
		We at FSFE would rather avoid that future. Hence, we are asking you to
		contact your elected representatives both in the European parliament and
		various legislative bodies throughout Europe and let them know that you
		wish European laws to remain the province of European legislators. Ask
		them to oppose
		<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2014/08/11/ttip-policy-laundering-a-few-reasons-for-free-software-communities-to-get-angry/">secretly negotiated</a>
		treaties; ask them to demand transparency and openness; and, most
		importantly, do it now and tell your legislators about the things you
		like to do with your possessions.
	</p>
	
	<p>
		It would also be nice if you could tell them what you would be unable
		to do if those secretive trade agreements were ratified, but you cannot:
		we do not know the current state of the negotiations. This is quite
		annoying, but despair not: most of our elected representatives are also
		in the dark, and they are unlikely to enjoy it. This offers us a unique
		opportunity to tune them against the deals before they are finalized
		and presented for ratification: let us get our representatives to
		oppose these deals while they can make a decision based on democratic
		principles and need not yet decide whether the economic perks outweigh
		the proposed harm to a free society.
	</p>

	<p>
		Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>,
		<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
		<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our
		work, <br/>
		<a href="/about/repentinus">Heiki Lõhmus</a>,
		<a href="/index.html">FSFE</a>
	</p>
	
	</div>
	<!--/e-content-->
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
<author id="repentinus" />
<date>
	<original content="2015-06-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
