<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-10-20" type="newsletter">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE Newsletter - October 2017</title>
  </head>
  <body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201709">

    <h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - October 2017</h1>


	<h2 id="savecodeshare">Tell EU to Save Code Share in the current EU Copyright debate!</h2>

		 <p newsteaser="yes">EU is currently revising its copyright rules for them to be more adapted for modern digital age in its proposal for the <a href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52016PC0593">EU Copyright Directive in the Digital Single Market</a>. Instead of recognising the realities of how different content is being shared online, the current EU Copyright Directive proposal, and in particular its Article 13 targeted at online hosting providers, <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20171005-01.en.html">threatens</a> our ability to access public code repositories and share code online. The new rules enshrined in Article 13 intend to introduce new obligations for code hosting platforms in order to prevent any possible copyright infringement, otherwise platforms will end up being directly liable for their users' activity. Article 13, thus, imposes the use of costly upload filters in order to identify allegedly infringing code. The problem with such requirement is that there are no known  automated filters that can accurately identify whether the code is shared adequately and without breaching a respective Free Software licence. In addition, Article 13 imposes a far-reaching monitoring obligation on code hosting platforms to actively seek for infringing activity by their users. In scope, proposed Article 13 treat every user of code hosting platform a potential copyright infringer whose content, including the whole code repositories, may be taken down or prevented to be uploaded to the platform at any time. If code gets so easily  "unpublished", this can severely hamper all the other software built on top of that.  </p>

		 <p>For more information on how Article 13 poses a threat to the ability to build software online, please visit <a href="https://savecodeshare.eu/">Save Code Share</a> and read our <a href="https://savecodeshare.eu/static/assets/WhitePaper-ImpactofArticel13onSoftwareEcosystem-SaveCodeShare.pdf">White Paper</a>. </p>

		<p>[ In the online version you find a picture here:        ]<br />
		[ FSFE booth at FrOSCon in the University of Applied Sciences Bonn-Rhein-Sieg, Germany  ]<br />
		[ https://fsfe.org/news/nl/nl-201710                               ]</p>

		<hr />
		<p><a href="https://fsfe.org/join/nl2017-10">Help us grow and make a difference in 2017</a></p>
		<hr />


		<h2 id="whatelsehavewedone">What else have we done? Inside and Outside the FSFE</h2>

			<ul>
			
			<li>Success of our <a href="https://publiccode.eu/">Public Money? Public Code!</a> campaign so far has been overwhelming. In the time of writing, we are more then 12.500 individual subscribers of the <a href="https://publiccode.eu/openletter/">open letter</a> and the campaign is backed by the support of more than 80 organisations. The campaign gained attention by a huge <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Activities/PMPC/Press">press coverage</a> and also many prominent people, developers, artists, CEOs and politicians have joined our demand that whenever software is financed by public money it should be public code as well. If you have not done so already, join us now and sign the <a href="https://publiccode.eu/#action">open letter</a>. </li>
				
			<li>Jonas Öberg, the FSFE Executive Director, <a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/reuse-templates/">blogged about updates</a> and templates to the FSFE's <a href="https://reuse.software/">REUSE campaign</a>. In his blogpost he presents three different Git repositories, each of which is REUSE compliant, and which demonstrate different parts of recommended REUSE practices.</li>

			<li>Kristi Progri, project assistant for the FSFE, blogged about our ongoing identity process and <a href="https://kristiprogri.com/2017/09/20/fsfe-identity-process/">how to become part of the involved interview process</a>.</li>

			<li>Polina Malaja, our policy analyst and legal coordinator, gave a talk at CopyCamp in Warsaw, Poland, about implications of the current EU Copyright Directive proposal for collaborative software environment and our campaign Save Code Share.  </li>

			<li>Carmen Bakker and Erik Da Silva, current interns at the FSFE, were giving a talk during Copycamp in Warsaw about our campaign Public Money Public Code. Find a <a href="https://www.carmenbianca.eu/en/post/2017-10-02-copycamp-public-money-public-code/">short report and a video on Carmen's blog</a></li>

			<li>Erik Albers, program manager and community coordinator of the FSFE, gave a talk about <a href="https://www.kieler-linuxtage.de/index.php?seite=programm.html&amp;untermenu=Besucher-Info#308">Free Software campaigning in the forefront of elections</a> at the Kieler Linuxtage, Germany. </li>

			<li>On Software Freedom Day, Polina Malaja gave a talk <a href="http://wiki.softwarefreedomday.org/2017/Germany/Berlin/JointSFDBerlin">about Public Money Public Code</a> in the c-base, Berlin.</li>

			<li>During the Digitale Woche Kiel, Erik Albers gave a <a href="https://digitalewochekiel.de/programm/public-money-public-code/">talk about Public Money Public Code</a> and how it helps with the current coalition agreement in Schleswig-Holstein.</li>
			</ul>

			
			
		<h2 id="donotmissitupcomingeventswiththefsfe">Do not miss it! Upcoming events with the FSFE</h2>

			<p>We are preparing the first-of-its-kind FSFE community meeting. It will take place on November 25 &amp; 26 in Berlin. We therefore invite all active community members and those who like to become active again, to come together and collaborate. Seats are limited due to physical restrictions. If you like to participate read all details <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Events/2017/the-fsfe-community-meeting-2017">on the dedicated wiki-page</a>.</p>

		<h2 id="getactive">Get Active</h2>

			<p>Tell the Members of the European Parliament and the EU Council to secure collaborative software development online, and in particularly sharing Free Software, by signing the [Open Letter] both as individual and/or organisation on <a href="https://savecodeshare.eu/#sign-letter">Save Code Share</a>! Please spread the word about negative implications of the current EU Copyright Directive proposal within your networks <a href="https://savecodeshare.eu/">#savecodeshare</a> . Tell EU policy makers that there is no place for upload filters when it comes to sharing code as Free Software!   </p>

		<h2 id="contributetoournewsletter">Contribute to our newsletter</h2>

			<p>If you would like to share any thoughts, pictures, or news, send them to us. As always, the address is newsletter@fsfe.org. We're looking forward to hearing from you!</p>

			<p>Thanks to our community, all the <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute">volunteers</a>, <a href="http://fsfe.org/join">supporters</a> and <a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus">donors</a> who make our work possible. And thanks to <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/translators/translators">our translators</a>, who enable you to read this newsletter in your mother tongue.</p>

			<p>Your editors,
			   Polina Malaja and Erik Albers</p>

	<hr />
		<p><a href="https://fsfe.org/join/nl2017-10">Help us grow and make a difference in 2017</a></p>
		<hr />


  </body>
  <sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
  <date>
    <original content="2017-10" />
  </date>
  <followup>donate</followup>
  <tags>
    <tag>newsletter</tag>
    <tag content="Reuse.Software">reuse</tag>
    <tag content="Public Money Public Code">publiccode</tag>
    <tag content="Save Code Share">savecodeshare</tag>
    <tag content="CopyCamp">copycamp</tag>
    <tag content="SHA2017">SHA2017</tag>
  </tags>
  <author id="albers" />
  <author id="malaja" />
</html>

