<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2013-10-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - October 2011</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - October 2011</h1>

<h2>Software Freedom Day: What alternative is there to Skype?</h2>

<p>The Free Software community celebrated the worldwide Software Freedom Day,
held annually the third Saturday in September, with diverse events and
meetings.</p>

<p>Our <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/groups/Manchester">local Fellowship
group in
Manchester</a> met to test and discuss "what alternative is there to
Skype?". They recorded 25 sets of results which were sumed up
<a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2012/news-20120920-01.en.html"> and and
published for public use.</a>. They concluded that either Mumble or SIP
(with all callers on the same server and using the same client) can be
an appropiate Free Software
Skype alternative.</p>

<p>Free Software alternatives were what the Vienna Fellowship Group were
offering at an information booth they organized on the ocassion of that day.
Dressed with a hoodie with the logo "Independent through free software –
fsfe.org", they were informing the passers about Free Sotware benefits and
giving away <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/franz.gratzer/2012/09/17/software-freedom-day-2012-in-vienna/">
  300 Live CDs from different free operating systems and about 1000
  leaflets</a>.</p>

<p>At Freedom Kosova 2012, that took place during the SFD weekend, Erik Albers
gave a talk, in front of a hundred of students <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/eal/2012/09/13/software-freedom-kosova-2012/">
  about the importance of Free Software in education </a> and the need to
support it. The previous day, he also helped to free some Androids during a
workshop.</p>

<p>More devices were liberated during the Free Your Android workshop that
Torsten Grote organized during the celebration of the Software Freedom Day at
BeLUG's headquarters.  Meanwhile in Cologne <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=572">a day event with lectures</a>,
that congregated Free Sotware advocaters from different generations, was
held.</p>
 


<h2>The resurrection of the debate: Should Europe have software patents?</h2>

<p>After <a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/513729/">Apple sued Samsung</a>,
Personalweb Technologies and Level 3 Communications is suing GitHub, and <a
  href="http://www.softwarefreedom.org/blog/2012/sep/17/twin-peaks-and-the-gpl/">
  "Twin Peaks Software, Inc." is suing Red Hat</a> (they filed a counterclaim
because of a GNU GPL violation) about patents. </p>

<p>Meanwhile <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/17/ep-committee-postpones-discussion-of-unitary-patent/">the
European Parliament has postponed the debate about the Unitary Patent</a> ,
which gives us more time to work on pointing out the <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/04/software-patents-in-europe-game-on/">several
serious problems, [incoherences] and hazards of the proposal</a> to the Legal
Affairs Commitee.</p>

<p>Our president, Karsten Gerloff, wrote a series of articles about software
patents, pointing at the current situation <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/05/how-the-european-patent-system-works/">at
the European Union level</a>.Also, he <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/06/notes-from-boldrinlevine-2012-the-case-against-patents/">has
published his notes</a> about "The Case Against Patents", a recent draft paper
by economists Michele Boldrin and David K. Levine, and he concludes that
we cannot "leave it to the EPO" and that "patent policy
needs to be integrated into a larger innovation policy strategy"within the EU.</p>

<h2>France's Prime Minister issues guideline in favour of Free Software</h2>

<p>After <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/eole/news/priority-open-source-italian-code-digital-administration">Italy's
  new law</a> on software procurement which clearly prefers Free Software upon
non-free software, France also took action: On September 19th France's Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault <a
  href="http://circulaire.legifrance.gouv.fr/pdf/2012/09/cir_35837.pdf">signed
  a guideline</a>, addressed to all ministries, that the French public
administration should favour Free Software. The advantages the Prime Minister sees
in Free Software, are its lower costs and that it increases flexibility and 
competition in the IT market. The public administration should make "an
educated choice", and do "a systematic review of free alternatives when doing
development and major revisions of applications."</p>

<p>The cross-ministry IT services give a set of recommendations to be implemented
by the French ministries aiming at developing and improving the use of Free
Software such as: find Free Software alternatives, follow and contribute to
the communities, or improve the culture of Free Software and Free licences.</p>

<p>FSFE's new intern Léopold Baillard explains this in detail in <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/leobaillard/2012/09/26/french-prime-minister-recommands-free-software-in-public-administrations/">his
  first blog post</a>, <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/french-guideline-favours-use-free-and-open-source">EC's
  joinup wrote about it</a>, and the French Free Software organisation APRIL
also has <a
  href="http://www.april.org/en/ayrault-circular-progress-use-free-software-french-administration-pending-legislative-part">good
  information on the case</a>.</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>Free Software policies from France, Italy, UK, or Sweden were also a
  topic in the German Parliament. On Friday 21st September, your editor was
  invited to speak there as an expert for Free Software. In the next weeks you
  will receive a summary on this topic, but, until then you can <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1005"> take a look at the questions</a>
  your editor had to answered before it, as well as links to the written
  statements from the other invited experts.</li>

  <li>FSFE's president Karsten Gerloff was busy giving talks: During Finland's
  Openmind conference he spoke about Free Software migrations, procurement, and
  overcoming common obstacles. Another talk was about the <a
    href="/campaigns/generalpurposecomputing/secure-boot-analysis.html">intense
    battle about who will control the computers we will use tomorrow</a>, and
  why the general-purpose computer is worth fighting for.</li>

   <li>Do you want to help updating the Free Sotfware Directory? FSF
is updating it wih the help of volunteers on IRC during a scheduled time.
If you are willing to take part, just check <a href="directory.fsf.org">the
directory front page </a> to find the day and the time. And if you want to
participate but the time is not appropiate for you, you can also contact
jgay@fsf.org to reschedule it. You will find all the ifnormation
in <a href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/licensing/join-the-fsf-and-friends-in-updating-the-free-software-directory-3
updating http://directory.fsf.org/">this blog post</a> </li>


<li>"How can I change the license, so my software cannot be used for military
  use?" Richard Stallman now wrote <a
    href="https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/programs-must-not-limit-freedom.html">
    an article</a> arguing, why a program must not restrict what jobs its users
  do with it, and why we cannot stop torture through software licenses.</li>

  <li>"Who controls the internet controls the data. Who controls the data,
  controls the future", says Georg (T)ORwell in the <a
    href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o66FUc61MvU">latest episode "Big
    Brother is WWWatching you"</a> from Juice Rap News (youtube link, you can
  use <a href="http://rg3.github.com/youtube-dl/">youtube-dl</a> to download
  it). It is about several Free Software connected topics and the advantages of
  <a href="https://www.torproject.org/">TOR</a>, and also features the
  Linksys-WRT-54 router, which was the first GNU GPL violation court case
  worldwide.</li>

  <li>There is information, that the City of Freiburg wants to switch to a
  proprietary office suite. FSFE together with OSB Alliance and BIKT wrote <a
    href="/news/2012/news-20120918-01.html">an open letter about it</a> asking
  several questions to the City's officials (German). EC's joinup <a
    href="http://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/advocacy-groups-decry-freiburgs-stealth-return-proprietary-office">reported
    about it</a>.</li>

  <li>Thanks to Kåre Thor Olsen the article <a
    href="/freesoftware/society/democracy.html">"Democracy requires Free
    Software"</a> is now translated also into Danish. It is now available in 12
  languages, thanks to all volunteers in our <a
    href="/contribute/translators/translators.html">our translators
    team</a>.</li>

  <li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>

    <li>Isabel (now Drost-Fromm) took your editors advise from the <a
      href="/news/nl/nl-201208.html">August newsletter</a> (under "The
    Fellowship: One to rule them all") and <a
      href="http://blog.isabel-drost.de/index.php/archives/423/moving-to-a-new-domain">made
      sure that Thilo became a Fellow</a> before their wedding. Of course
    marrying did not stop her to <a href="http://blog.isabel-drost.de/">write
      several other blog posts</a> last month. FSFE thanks the two of them for
    their support, and wishes them all the best for their marriage.</li>

    <li>FSFE's intern Ana Galan has a journalist background. She now wrote
    about her experience from Campus Party in <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/anaghz/2012/09/15/my-first-time/">"my first
      time"</a>, as well as the above mentioned <a href="
      http://blogs.fsfe.org/anaghz/2012/09/17/libre-android-libre-knowledge/">Free
      Your Android workshop at Berlin's Software Freedom Day</a>.</li>

    <li>How much do you pay per month for Free Software? Last month <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2012/09/22/paying-for-free-software/">Torsten
      Grote payed $25</a> and your editor $20 for Twidere, an Android
    Status.net and Twitter client, who's developer <a
      href="https://github.com/mariotaku/twidere#consider-donate">needs new
      hardware</a>.</li>

    <li>Can you verify <a
      href="http://computerfloss.com/2012/09/which-languages-should-you-be-familiar-with-for-a-career-in-web-programming/">
      Karl Beecher's results</a> that PHP is essential to a career in web
    programming?</li>

    <li>On the technical side Torsten also wrote about his <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2012/09/12/first-experiences-installing-the-new-kolab-3-0/">
      first experiences installing the Kolab 3.0</a>, Daniele Domenichelli had
    some fun with with the <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/drdanz/?p=705">KDE
      telepathy text user interface plugins</a>, <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/migration-done">Matija Šuklje</a> and <a
      href="http://www.softmetz.de/2012/09/05/das-neue-softmetz-de/">Christian
      Kalkhof</a> both migrated their websites, Alexandre De Dommelin wrote
    about <a
      href="http://www.tuxz.net/blog/archives/2012/09/25/high_availability_-_automated_origin_failover_usin/">
      how a small hosted site gets redundancy</a>, and Alexandre Keledjian <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/dervishe/2012/08/13/des-logiciels-libres-et-un-petit-script-vous-aident-a-gagner-de-la-place/">describes
      how to convert your audio CDs into FLAC</a> (French).</li>
      
     <li>And finally FSFE would like to thank Michael Stehmann who organised an
     FSFE Fellowship project room at FrOSCon, which dealt with <a
       href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=565">the usage of Free Software
       in SMEs</a> (German).</li>
   
  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: Less than 3 minutes to support FSFE</h2>

<p>To make it short: If you care about Free Software and support what FSFE is
doing, please <a href="/support/support.html">become a supporter of FSFE</a>.
It does not cost any money and takes less than 3 minutes to do so. If you are
interested you can <a href="/news/2012/news-20120925-01.html">read about the
  background of this</a>.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date: 2011-06-06 12:32:19 +0200 (Mon, 06 Jun 2011) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
