<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2018-12-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - December 2015</title>
</head>
<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201512">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - December 2015</h1>
	<div class="e-content">


<h2 id="from-the-fsfe">From the FSFE</h2>

<h2 id="meps-in support-of-our-amendments" >MEPs in support of our amendments</h2>

<p>The European Parliamentary committees for Internal Market and Consumer 
Protection (IMCO) as well as Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) issued 
their joint own-initiative report based on the Commission's Digital Single 
Market Strategy. FSFE's policy team analysed their report and proposed 
changes to include standards that are open, minimalistic, and implementable 
with Free Software, to integrate users' control over their data and to 
make sure that the the single open science cloud is implemented with 
Free Software.</p>

<p>The report received more than 1000 amendments from Members of the European 
Parliament (MEPs), several of whom supported our points and proposed amendments. 
This shows increased awareness in the Parliament towards the importance 
of Free Software in &quot;cloud computing&quot;, big data and standardisation, 
as well as in public sector. Shadow rapporteur Cornelia Ernst even highlighted 
the need to address Free Software during her talk in the joint meeting of 
IMCO/ITRE on 10 November. This month, on December 14, the Parliament will 
vote for the final version of the report.</p>

<p>Although the report is non-binding and the Commission is not obliged 
to follow the Parliament's recommendations, the fact that our amendments 
were supported by several MEPs is an important step. Especially in the 
Parliament that is usually less receptive when it comes to the issues 
concerning digital rights and Free Software.</p>

<h2 id="germany-passed-law-against-compulsory-routers">Germany passed law 
against compulsory routers</h2>

<p><a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/routers/timeline.html">After three 
years of intensive lobbying by the FSFE</a> and other organisations, the 
German Parliament as well as the second chamber, the Federal Council, 
passed a law against compulsory routes but for free choice of the user. 
This is an important step towards consumer protection and fair competition 
of manufacturers. Free choice also empowers users to take care of critical 
features like security or privacy on their own preferred device. The law 
will become effective in the mid of 2016 and should set an example across 
Europe. We will support similar legislation wherever needed.</p>

<h2 id="sony-rootkit-makes-headlines-10-years-later">Sony Rootkit makes 
headlines 10 years later</h2>

<p>In the end of October FSFE reminded of the dangers posed by technical 
restrictions on technology to promote everyone's right to tinker. As a 
result, the topic got picked up by the press and the FSFE info page was 
linked with at least a dozen articles from several big name news sources. 
Our ex-intern Asa Ritz [summarised] <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/asawritz/2015/11/04/sony-rootkit-still-making-headlines-10-years-later-2/">summarised</a> in his blogpost the media coverage we received.</p>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li>FSFE president <a href="http://berlin2015.codemotionworld.com/talk-detail/?detail=1958">Matthias Kirschner gave a talk about the computer as a universal machine</a> at 
Codemotion Berlin, and ran a <a href="http://www.gruene-fraktion-berlin.de/offener-it-gipfel">workshop 
about restrictions on technical restrictions at the "Open IT Summit"</a> 
in Berlin. In a podcast, <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/podcast-on-non-military-use-clause-in-gnu-gpl/">Matthias argued against a &quot;non-military clause&quot; in Free Software 
licenses</a>.</li>

<li>FSFE community coordinator Erik Albers and FSFE legal team coordinator 
Matija Šuklje participated at <a href="http://copycamp.pl/en/">Copycamp 
Warsaw</a> to host a booth and Matija to gave a talk about "Implications 
of the EU Copyright Reform on Free Software".</li>

<li>FSFE was present at <a href="https://fscons.org/2015/">FSCONS</a> in 
Goteborg, Sweden. Christian Kalkhoff <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/softmetz/?p=63">wrote 
about his FSCONS experience</a> in a blogpost.</li>

<li>FSFE had its booths also at <a href="http://www.opensourcesummit.paris/">Open 
Source Summit in Paris</a>, at <a href="http://www.linuxday.at/">Linuxday 
in Dornbirn</a>, Austria, and at <a href="http://openrheinruhr.de/">OpenRheinRuhr 
Oberhausen</a>, Germany.</li>
</ul>


<h2 id="take-action">Take Action</h2>

<ul>
<li>If you like to meet us in person, you will meet members, staff and 
community of the FSFE at our booth at <a href="https://fosdem.org/2016/">FOSDEM</a>. 
And if you go to <a href="https://events.ccc.de/congress/2015/wiki/Main_Page">this 
year's Chaos Communication Conference, #32C3</a>, then do not miss to pass by 
the <a href="https://events.ccc.de/congress/2015/wiki/Assembly:Free_Software_Foundation_Europe">FSFE assembly</a>, participate in one of our sessions or simply take a break 
in our "Free Software lounge".</li>

<li>The FSFE Education team is redesigning its educational leaflet. If 
you like to join or share ideas, feel free to participate on the <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Reasons_for_schools_to_use_Free_Software">wiki page</a>.</li>

<li>In our Free Your Android campaign we highlight the importance of 
Replicant as a 100% free Android-based operating system. We are happy to 
see that business grows, that start to sell <a href="https://tehnoetic.com/tehnoetic-s2-phone-replicant">phones with replicant pre-installed</a> and we hope there are more 
companies who follow this example.</li>

<li>If you like what we have done in 2015 and you like us to continue 
the good work in 2016 or even grow stronger, then consider to 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/donate">support us with a donation</a> 
or to <a href="https://fsfe.org/join">become a sustainable member</a>. 
Funding is crucial to our existence.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="out-of-the-community">Out of the community</h2>

<ul>
<li>A new team got established: North Rhine-Westphalia is the biggest 
state of Germany with currently three local FSFE groups. This month, they 
had an <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=1629">inaugural meeting 
of a state-wide action group, the Team NRW</a>. Besides coordination, 
the <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/wromey/2015/11/22/grundungssitzung-des-nrw-teams-der-free-software-foundation-europe/">primary tasks shall be the education of teachers</a>.</li>

<li>At the local meeting of FSFE Düsseldorf, <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/stehmann/?p=1592">Andreas Schreiber talked about the open source strategy of Germany’s Aerospace 
Centre DLR</a> and this event was <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/147875">picked 
up by the European Open Source Observatory</a></li>
<li>After offering pre-flashed Libreboot Laptops at <a href="https://freie.computer/">freie.computer</a> the local group <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mmoeller/2015/11/27/flashdays-are-coming/">FSFE 
Zurich now decided to start doing Flashdays</a></li>

<li>Daniel Pocock reports about <a href="http://danielpocock.com/building-teams-around-sip-and-xmpp-in-debian-and-fedora">team 
building around SIP and XMPP communication in Debian and Fedora</a>, and 
Daniel has also written a [quick start to use Blender for video editing](http://danielpocock.com/quick-start-blender-video-editing</li>

<li>Marcus Möller <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mmoeller/2015/11/04/freed-ora-23-workstation-available/">customised Fedora 23 in a Freed version</a>, which includes linux-libre 
kernel and Icecat webbrowser. All proprietary firmware has been removed.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software News</h2>
<ul>
<li>At the <strong>EU</strong> level : the European Parliament calls upon 
the Commission for the <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2015/news-20151110-01.en.html">systematic 
replacement of proprietary software by verifiable Free Software in all 
the EU institutions</a>. In <strong>Italy</strong>, the <a href="http://www.computerweekly.com/news/4500256578/Free-software-gains-ground-in-the-Italian-public-administration">Italian Ministry of Defence is replacing Microsoft Office with 
LibreOffice</a> on 150,000 PCs in what is Europe’s second largest 
LibreOffice implementation. Meanwhile, the second most important industrial 
city in Southern Italy, <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/146281">Bari, 
is about to complete its transition to LibreOffice</a> and the ODF. At 
the same time in <strong>Switzerland</strong>, the <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/bern-council-demands-transition-open-source">council 
of Bern ordered the IT department to end its dependence on proprietary 
software</a>, and replace proprietary software by Free Software solutions.
The same example was followed in <strong>Denmark</strong> where the city of Aarhus <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/denmark%E2%80%99s-aarhus-insists-open-it-standards">is requiring the use of open IT standards for all of its future IT projects</a> 
in order to rid itself of IT vendor lock-in. Lastly, recent study in 
<strong>France</strong> confirmed that <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/node/147785">country's administration is still a large enabler of Free Software in France</a>. 
According to the study, the Free Software market is growing on a linear trend and will grow by 9% annually until 2020.</li>

</ul>
<p>This was the final newsletter in 2015. Thank you very much for your 
attention. You will receive the next newsletter in the beginning of 
February 2016.</p>

<p>BTW: We are still experimenting with new ways and formats for our 
newsletter. Please feel free to give us your feedback at 
fellowship@fsfeurope.org.</p>

<p>Happy Christmas and a Happy GNU-year!</p>
<p>Your editors Polina Malaja and Erik Albers <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a></p>
</div>
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2018-12-04"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
