<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2018-04-04" type="newsletter">

<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - April 2015</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201504">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - April 2015</h1>
	<div class="e-content">

<h2>Jonas Öberg visiting Boston without a pink backpack</h2>

<p><a href="/news/2015/news-20150302-02.html">Our new Executive
Director Jonas Öberg</a> gave a talk at Libreplanet, and visited Boston to meet
FSF board members and staff. In <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/jonas/?p=14">his
blog posts</a> he wrote about his meetings with Matthew Garret, Benjamin Mako
Hill, Bradley Kuhn, Henry Poole from FSF's board, FSF's staff as well as FSF's
Executive Director John Sullivan discussing how to improve cooperation and the
two main challenges he sees for FSFE:</p>

<ul><li>analysing Free Software from legal, technical, and social dimensions
and ensuring that any challenges to Free Software within those areas are
met,</li> <li>assuring that in a world of free and open everything, Free
Software is what ties everything together: you can not have open data, open
ecology, open government or open educational resources without Free
Software.</li></ul>

<p>Furthermore he looks back to his first visit, at that time in his capacity
as GNU webmaster, in December 1999 with a pink backpack.</p>

<h2>FSFE supporting the Christoph Hellwig GNU GPL enforcement lawsuit</h2>

<p>FSFE welcomes the <a
href="http://sfconservancy.org/linux-compliance/vmware-lawsuit-faq.html">action which
Christoph Hellwig and the Software Freedom Conservancy are taking</a> to bring
VMware into compliance with the GNU General Public License.</p>

<p>Free Software is a public resource, and it is governed by legal rules and
social norms. Anyone who draws on this resource without respecting those rules
and norms damages the community at large. The great majority of such problems
are successfully resolved through dialogue and goodwill. It is only when
dialogue fails that legal steps become necessary in order to protect this
resource which we all share.</p>

<p>While FSFE regrets that this lawsuit has arisen, we believe that
safeguarding Free Software against those who try to appropriate for themselves
what belongs to us all is of the utmost importance.</p>

<h2>Joint statement on the use of Open Standards in the European Commission</h2>

<p>Open Standards are formats and protocols which everybody can use free of
charge and restriction and for which no specific software from a particular
vendor is required. It is important that every EU citizen and company should
have the right to communicate and interact with its administration using Open
Standards exclusively, and not be forced to install and use software from any
specific vendor.</p>

<p>At Document Freedom Day (DFD), the international day to celebrate and raise
awareness of Open Standards, April (the French Free Software organisation),
European Digital Rights (EDRi), Open Forum Europe (OFE), the Open Source
Business Alliance (OSBA), and FSFE published a joint statement. Besides
generally highlighting the topic, the statement focuses on the <a
href="/news/2015/news-20150325-01.html">improper use of
standards in the context of applying for EU programmes</a>. (A full report
about the 60 DFD events in 31 countries will be published at the beginning of
April.)</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

<li>Just how transparent does the European Parliament have to be? In its own
rules of procedure, the Parliament has set itself the high standard of
conducting its affairs in “utmost transparency”. Our president <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2015/03/26/909/">Karsten Gerloff
reports</a> from an interesting discussion “Ensuring utmost transparency – Free
Software and Open Standards under the Rules of Procedure of the European
Parliament”, and what that means in practice.</li>

<li>The German Ministry of Economics published a first <a
href="http://www.bmwi.de/BMWi/Redaktion/PDF/P-R/referentenentwurf-gesetz-zur-auswahl-und-zum-anschluss-von-telekommunikationsendgeraeten,property=pdf,bereich=bmwi2012,sprache=de,rwb=true.pdf">draft
law to ban compulsory routers (German)</a>. Except missing enforcement measures
FSFE welcomes the draft. We update the <a
href="/activities/routers/timeline.html">timeline</a> and our
<a href="/activities/routers/routers.html">overview pages</a> so people
outside German could reuse our experiences to fight compulsory routers in other
countries, too.</li>

<li>At a panel discussion, organised by the European Patent Office, about
patents, standards, and Free Software <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/unexpected-turn-at-panel-discussion-on-software-patents-and-free-software/">your
editor experienced an unexpected but positive turn</a>.</li>

<li>The New Yorker notes the 30th anniversary of the GNU Manifesto and <a
href="http://www.newyorker.com/business/currency/the-gnu-manifesto-turns-thirty">published
a longer article about Richard Stallman and the start of
GNU and copyleft</a>.</li>

<li>This year the <a
href="https://www.fsf.org/news/free-software-award-winners">Free Software
Award</a> went to Sébastien Jodogne for his work on Free software Medical
imaging with his project Orthanc and to Reglue, which gives GNU/Linux computers
to underprivileged children and their families in Austin, Texas.</li>

<li>FSFE welcomes Nicolas Dietrich in its General Assembly. He was elected by
our sustaining members, and thereby holds one of the two <a
href="/news/2015/news-20150316-01.html">Fellowship GA
seats</a>.</li>

<li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>:</li>

<ul>

<li>Peter Bubestinger explains <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/pb/?p=147">how he
saved the songs of a friend's iPod with Free Software</a>.</li>

<li>In his new job, former FSFE intern <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/nicoulas/?p=175">Nicolas Jean published EvQueue, a
job scheduler and queuing engine, as Free Software</a>.</li>

<li><a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=878">Paul Boddie wrote about the
BBC Micro Bit</a>, a computing device, which the BBC plan to give to each child
in the UK starting secondary school.</li>

<li>Franz Gratzer highlighted some English <a
href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/franz.gratzer/2015/03/01/fosdem-2015-some-interviews/">interviews
held during FOSDEM</a>, and wrote about the booth presence of freie.it, which
was founded by some members of FSFE’s Viennese Fellowship group, as a web
platform to help people who are interested in using Free Software but who do
not want to administrate their own computers.</li>

<li>Fellow Karl Beecher explained <a
href="http://computerfloss.com/2015/03/endocode-proud-to-sponsor-free-software-foundation-europe/">why
his company Endocode supports FSFE as silver donor</a>, and</li>

<li>Mirko Böhm, also part of Endocode, <a
href="http://creative-destruction.me/2015/03/11/fancy-dinners-cgroups-and-namespaces-and-meet-ups/">wrote
about his activites</a>, including meeting with Jonas Öberg, FSFE’s new Executive
Director.</li>

<li>Nico Rikken wrote about <a
href="http://nicorikken.eu/blog/fairphone-back-to-the-drawing-board/">his
discussions with the Fairphone producers</a></li>

<li>Mario Fux wondered <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mario/?p=283">if Konqi --
the KDE mascot -- is male or female</a>.</li>

<li>And Daniel Pocock explains <a
href="http://danielpocock.com/the-easiest-way-to-run-your-own-openid">how you
can become your own OpenID provider</a>.</li>

</ul>
</ul>

<h2>Get active: Spread the message with Free Software merchandise</h2>

<p>During the last weeks, many people <a
href="/contribute/spreadtheword.html#promo-material">ordered our
“There is no cloud, just other people's computers” stickers</a>. Now Rich
Folsom wrote <a
href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/cloud-to-other-peoples-co/kkpbkgbkkggjfnkkcfaodijpfldjfkji">a
Chromium Browser add-in</a>, which converts “the cloud” to “other people's
computers”.</p>

<p>Since so many people like the slogan, we now also have the corresponding <a
href="/order/order.html">“There is no cloud, just other
people's computers” <strong>bags</strong> in our webshop</a>. Furthermore we
have a new Open Standard t-shirt with robots in fitted light blue or a
non-fitted khaki, the “I love Free Software” t-shirt in light blue, or a fitted
“Hacking for Freedom” t-shirt in grey, as well as the metallic “GNU/Linux
inside” stickers and a golden GNU pin.</p>

<p>If you want to spread the Free Software message at work, conferences, or
when you are shopping, you can <a
href="/order/order.html">order the equipment on our merchandise
page</a>.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>, <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a></p>
    </div>
    <!--/e-content-->
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
<author id="kirschner" />
<date>
	<original content="2015-03-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
