
<html newsdate="2018-11-07" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - November 2016</title>
</head>
<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201607">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - November 2016</h1>
	
<h2 id="public-consultation-on-our-fellowship">Public consultation on our Fellowship</h2>
<p newsteaser="yes">Since 2005, the FSFE has maintained two distinct 
brands: the FSFE and our Fellowship. While this made sense initially, 
we've grown increasingly uncomfortable with the way this created a 
separation between the Fellows and the FSFE as two separate entities, 
despite the fact that we're all working together! Accordingly, we've reduced our 
activities promoting the "Fellowship" as something distinct from the FSFE, 
and now talk more about "FSFE Groups" rather than "Fellowship Groups", for our 
local groups.</p>

<p>We now need to come to a decision on how to develop these brands in 
the future. Based on an initial discussion between our coordinators and 
in our core team, we've developed a proposal which you will find below: 
it essentially means that we would deprecate the
Fellowship, and bring everything under the umbrella of the FSFE. As an 
important part of our community, your feedback is valuable to us. For 
this public consultation, we would be happy to hear your thoughts on the 
matter by the 30th of November 2016, after which we will provide a 
summary of the feedback received on which we will base our decision.</p>

<p>Any changes that stem from this proposal, in its current form or in 
the way we will shape it based on the feedback provided, will be put 
into practice during 2017. You can provide your feedback 
to contact@fsfe.org.</p>

<p>Please note that in the proposal below we use a term "Supporter" as a 
new alternative to "Fellow". We would very much like to hear your thoughts 
on this too. Other options suggested include "Patron", "Supporter", 
"Contributor", "Donor", and possibly other names you may think of too. 
There is also the option to keep the name "Fellow" as a term, and only 
deprecate "Fellowship".</p>

<h3 id="proposal">PROPOSAL</h3>
<p>The "Fellowship" and "Fellow" names are deprecated. Activities done in
local groups or which were otherwise named in conjunction with the
brand "Fellowship" shall be brought under the name of the "FSFE": an
FSFE event, an FSFE local group, and so on.</p>

<p>Our "Community" is anyone who identifies as being a part of the FSFE,
be that by supporting and encouraging our activities, contributing financially,
or participating in the work. We want everyone to be a part of
our community, regardless of their level of engagement.</p>

<p>Anyone who contributes financially with the intent of contributing
regularly is a "Supporter" of the FSFE. The Council may set a minimum
threshold for a regular contribution to account for transaction costs.
Financially, our Supporters provide the solid foundation on which the
FSFE stands: their regular financial contributions give stability
to the organisation.  We call our one-time contributors "Donors".</p>

<p>We encourage everyone who wants to be part of our activities to join
one of our teams: either a topical team (as a translator, webmaster, or similar)
or a geographical team (the Berlin team, the Nordic team, and so on).
By joining one of our teams they become a "Team Member" of that team
(system-hackers team member, translation team member).</p>


<h2 id="eif-v.-3-citizens-demand-for-more-Free-Software,-while-businesses-seek-to-promote-true-open-standards">EIF v.3 – citizens demand more Free Software, while businesses seek to promote true Open Standards</h2>
	
<p>The European Commission (EC) has finally <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/polina/2016/10/31/eif-v-3-citizens-demand-for-more-free-software-while-businesses-seek-to-promote-true-open-standards/">published 
the summary of the contributions received for its public consultation on
 the revision of the European Interoperability Framework</a> (EIF), a set of 
 guidelines for public administrations to deliver their e-government services. 
 The FSFE has <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/os/eif-v3.en.html">previously 
 submitted its comments and recommendations on the proposed draft</a>. 
 According to the results of the public consulation, the majority of respondents 
 amongst citizens asked for more Free Software and Open Standards when 
 revising the EIF, whilst respondents amongst businesses and private 
 organisations asked the EC to "promote the use of (true) open standards
 and support of standards in new technologies". We hope the EC will follow 
 the wishes of EU citizens and implement these recommendations in 
 the revised EIF.</p>


<h2 id="from-the-community">From the community</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>André Ockers <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/ao/2016/10/18/my-participation-in-the-first-fsfe-summit-and-15th-anniversary-celebration/">wrote about 
his participation in the first FSFE Summit and 15th anniversary celebration</a>, 
as well as Guido Arnold, who also <a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2016/10/my-fsfe-summitqtcon/">blogged 
about his experience at the FSFE summit.</a> </p></li>

<li><p>Björn Schießle blogs about the
<a href="http://blog.schiessle.org/2016/07/04/history-and-future-of-cloud-federation/">History 
and Future of Cloud Federation</a> where he explains the concept of server-to-server 
sharing in Owncloud/Nextcloud and its development to a "federated cloud ID", 
which looks similar to an email address. Like email, "federated cloud" refers 
to a user on a specific server.</p></li>

<li><p>Are you interested in real-time communications? Daniel Pocock 
<a href="https://danielpocock.com/fosdem-2017-rtc-cfp">encourages you to 
become a speaker and participate at FOSDEM 2017</a>, one of the world's 
biggest conferences addressing Free Software developers in particular. </p></li>

<li><p>Iain R. Learmonth <a href="https://iain.learmonth.me/post/2016/pathspider-stable/">presents
 PATHspider 1.0.0 and highlights the changes that have been incorporated 
 to the latest version</a> of this framework for performing and analysing 
 existing network impairments.  </p></li>

<li><p>David Boddie <a href="http://www.boddie.org.uk/david/www-repo/Personal/Updates/2016/2016-10-16.html">gives you 
a step-by-step explanation on how to build disk images for the
 operating system Inferno</a>.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>The FSFE's current Vice-president Alessandro Rubini stepped down
 to focus on his work with the Free Software community in Italy. 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2016/news-20161031-01.en.html">Taking over 
from Alessandro is Heiki Lõhmus, a student of aeronautical engineering
 from Estonia</a>. Alessandro Rubini is a long time advocate of Free Software: 
 as the FSFE's Vice-president, he has contributed with invaluable 
 efforts to push for Free Software, not only in Italy but all over
  Europe. Heiki Lõhmus has actively lobbied the Estonian government to
 publish the software used for the Estonian elections as Free Software and
 now receives the baton for Vice-president of FSFE to carry on 
 Alessandro’s excellent work.</p></li>

<li><p>The FSFE
<a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/askyourcandidates/201610-germany-berlin-handlungsempfehlungen">sent three 
recommendations for actions to foster the use and implementation
of Free Software</a> (in German) to the new government that is currently being 
formed in the state of Berlin.</p></li>

<li><p>The local FSFE group in Rhein/Main <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2016/10/fsfe-booth-at-street-festival-in-frankfurt/">was present
 at a street festival (Rotlintstraßenfest) in Frankfurt</a> to promote 
 the FSFE and explain and inform the people about Free Software. </p></li>

<li><p>The system hackers have decided to <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Teams/System-Hackers/Decommissioning-Pad">decommission 
our (very) old pad service</a>. They invite anyone who's interested 
in the FSFE offering a pad service to get in touch to setup a new team 
which can create a new pad service.</p></li>

<li><p>From October 24 to 27, the FSFE's President Matthias Kirschner 
and the FSFE's Policy analyst Polina Malaja participated in several
 community events in Greece. They gave <a href="https://foss.ntua.gr/wiki/index.php/%CE%91%CF%81%CF%87%CE%B9%CE%BA%CE%AE_%CF%83%CE%B5%CE%BB%CE%AF%CE%B4%CE%B1">talks 
 in the National Technical University of Athens</a>, 
<a href="https://www.hackerspace.gr/#/updates/967244">in the Athens 
Hackerspace</a> (in Greek) and <a href="https://opensource.ellak.gr/2016/10/27/apologismos-imeridas-elefthero-anikto-logismiko-anikti-prosvasi-me-ton-ton-proedro-tou-fsfe-matthias-kirschner/">in the 
National Hellenic Reseach Foundation</a> (in Greek).</p></li>

<li><p> On October 4-6, the FSFE participated with a booth in the
<a href="http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon-europe">
LinuxCon + ContainerCon Europe 2016</a>, which took place in Berlin.</p></li>

<li><p>The "FreieSoftwareOG" represented the FSFE with a<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fast_edi/?p=502"> booth in Offenburg</a> (in German).</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take action!</h2>

<p>Please read the proposal for the Fellowship brand above and send your comments
or thoughts to contact@fsfe.org.</p>

<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software News</h2>

<p>The public procurement authority of the French state <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/france-renews-its-two-free-software-support-contracts">renewed its two contracts 
for free software support services provided for ministries 
and other governmental agencies</a>. Both contracts were awarded to the 
French free software services provider Linagora and were originally initiated 
in 2012. More good news from France and the city of <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/nantes-open-source-cuts-recurring-charges">Nantes, 
where the switch to LibreOffice last April has lowered the IT costs 
by EUR 1.6 million</a> and will keep saving the public administration EUR 260 000 per year.</p>


<h2 id="fsfe-in-the-press">The FSFE in the Press</h2>
<ul>
 <li>netzpolitik.org [DE] <a href="https://netzpolitik.org/2016/berliner-koalitionsverhandlungen-als-chance-fuer-freie-software/">Berliner 
 Koalitionsverhandlungen als Chance für Freie Software</a>.</li>

<li>netzpolitik.org [DE] <a href="https://netzpolitik.org/2016/urheberrecht-usa-erlaubt-tuefteln-an-eigenen-geraeten/"> Urheberrecht: USA 
erlaubt Tüfteln an eigenen Geräten</a>.</li>

<li>PCMAG [EL], 
<a href="https://gr.pcmag.com/eleuthero-logismiko/23652/news/o-proedros-tou-free-software-foundation-europe-sten-athena">The President of the FSFE in Athens</a>.</li>

<li>Business news [EL], <a href="http://www.businessnews.gr/article/53076/eellak-imerida-gia-eleythero-logismiko">GFOSS: Talks about Free Software</a>.</li>

<li>Greek Union of Computer Engineers [EL], <a href="http://bit.ly/2ep13c1">Free Software 
Day with the FSFE President Matthias Kirschner</a>.</li>

<li>epixeiro.gr [EL], <a href="http://bit.ly/2eoYmqW">Free Software, 
Open Access and Enterpreuneship Day</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="help-us-to-improve-our-newsletter">Help us to improve our newsletter</h2>
<p>Do you think we have missed some news, or you'd like specific 
news to appear in the next newsletter? You have been reading about 
the FSFE in the press and would like to share this with us? For this and any 
other feedback, please share it by writing to newsletter@fsfeurope.org
</p>


<p>Thanks to all the <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.en.html">volunteers</a>, 
<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus.en.html">corporate donors</a> 
who enable our work,</p>
<p>your editors Erik Albers, Olga Gkotsopoulou,
Jonas Öberg and Polina Malaja, <a href="https://fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

</body>
<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2018-11"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>
</html>
