<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2014-02-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - February 2014</title>
</head>

<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201402">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter – February 2014</h1>

        <div class="e-content">

<h2>A big step forward for Free Software in Italy</h2>

<p>More public administrations using Free Software means more money for the
development of Free Software and less problems for citizen using Free Software
  communicating with their authorities. In January the <a
    href="https://fsfe.org/news/2014/news-20140116-01.html">Italian
    government has made Free Software the default choice for public
    administrations</a>. The Italian Digital Agency issued new rules saying that
  all government organisations in the country must consider using Free Software
  before buying licenses for proprietary programs. The rule, which has been
  discussed for over a year, has now been reaffirmed. Carlo Piana, who
  participated on FSFE's behalf in the working group, <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/italy-posts-benchmark-open-vs-closed-software">wrote</a>:
"Now public administrations have no excuse not to comply with the guidelines.
There are no more excuses, there is no room for ambiguous interpretations."</p>

<h2>What else is going on in the public administration</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">First the bad news, the European Commission is still in
denial on their vendor lock-in and <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2014/01/15/european-commission-still-in-denial-on-vendor-lock-in/">Karsten
Gerloff offers good reasons</a> to believe that they are not serious about
using and supporting the Open Document Format. But there were also a lot of
good developments: The European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties,
Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE), <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/improve-it-security-ep-demands-open-source">wants
  to use more Free Software for their new IT systems</a>. The <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/ep-green/efa-use-open-source-secure-email">Greens/ETA
  in the European parliament started a small pilot program</a> to increase
e-mail security, running 10 laptops with Debian GNU/Linux. The next step for
them would be to budget to pay for the Free Software support, like the
Parliament does for non-free software.</p>

<p><a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/munich-open-source-switch-completed-successfully">
  The city of Munich successfully completed their GNU/Linux migration with
  14.800 PCs</a>. They also announced that they will <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/munich-continue-open-source-advocacy-work">continue
  their advocacy work for Free Software</a>. EC's Joinup reports that <a
  href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/oss-use-dutch-town-lowers-it-cost-24-vs-peers">public
  administrations in the Netherlands who use Free Software spend 24% less than
the ones who do not</a>. In Denmark public libraries are switching to
GNU/Linux, and are demanding a complete free admin system. Carsten Agger, our
local coordinator for Århus/Denmark, <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/agger/2014/01/07/bibos-admin-admin-system-for-gnulinux-to-be-presented-at-fosdem/">is
involved in providing this system</a>.</p>

<h2>Compulsory routers: Private network should be private!</h2>

<p>You should be able to use a router of your own choice in your home, so you
can have more control over this gateway from your private network to the
internet. But in Germany ISPs started to force customers to use specific
routers, and did not offer them the internet access credentials to use routers
of their own choice. Together with dedicated volunteers from <a
  href="https://openwrt.org/">OpenWRT</a>, <a
  href="http://www.ipfire.org/">IPFire</a> and others, <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1163">FSFE worked on this issue in
  2013</a>, sending a letter to the authorities, and answering 18 detailed
questions.  Our argument were then covered by German newspapers, magazines
and and television news sites.</p>

<p>What did we achieve? The new coalition agreement of the German governments
says that they are against compulsory routers, and that the ISPs have to send
the usernames and passwords without request from the customers. Those are the
good news from the new coalition agreement. Our intern Max Mehl summarised our
work on compulsory routers in his blog entry <a
href="http://blog.max-mehl.com/2014/why-free-choice-of-routers-is-an-unnegotiable-must/">"Why
free choice of routers is a must"</a>.</p>

<p>But although the coalition agreement by CDU/CSU und SPD is an improvement
for Free Software compared to the one from the last Government, there are still
  some <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2013/news-20131211-01.en.html">critical
    points, which we pointed out in our press release</a> (in German, but Joinup published a
    <a
      href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/fsfe-german-coalition-should-prioritise-open-source">good
    article in English about it</a>).</p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>You might have noticed it already: Our web team applied a new design to
  FSFE's website. Hugo Roy <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/hugo/2014/01/a-new-website-for-fsfe-org/">announced
the plans in the beginning of the month</a>. The new design should make the
website better usable on every screen (tiny mobile, mobile, big mobile/tablet,
laptops, desktops, whatevercomesnext) and we will reuse this for
www.,wiki.,planet.,fellowship., search. and eventually, blogs.fsfe.org. Hugo
documented <a href="/contribute/template">how to use the new web design in a
template article</a>, and <a href="/contribute/web/css.html">how to edit our
CSS with LESS</a>.</li>

  <li><a href="http://mjg59.dreamwidth.org/29160.html">Matthew Garrett criticised
    Canonical's contributor agreement</a>. Other copyright assignment tools,
  such as <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fiduciary.en.html">FSFE's
  Fiduciary License Agreement</a> and the GNU Project's copyright assignment,
enable developers to prevent their code from being used in non-free software.
In contrast, Canonical's agreement explicitly states that the company may
distribute people's contributions under non-free licenses. If you value
software freedom, FSFE recommends you <strong>not to sign</strong> agreements
which make it possible to distribute your code under non-free licenses.</li>

  <li>Get 46.03€ back for an unused Microsoft Windows license. Rui Miguel Silva
  Seabra explains in a series of <a
  href="https://blog.1407.org/2014/01/10/got-my-windows-refund-and-so-can-you/">blog
entries how he was successful to get a Windows tax refund in Portugal</a>. You
can help us to keep <a
href="https://www.wiki.fsfe.org/WindowsTaxRefund">Windows Tax Refund wiki up to
date</a>.</li>

  <li>Fellowship representative Heiki "Repentinus" Ojasild and other Free
  Software supporters <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus/english/2014/01/27/a-short-excursion-into-the-estonian-language-and-its-corpus-planning-as-it-relates-to-free-software/">convinced
    the Institute of the Estonian Language to differ between Free Software and
    gratis software</a>.</li>

   <li>Local groups: Carsten Agger, our local group coordinator from Aahrus
   Denmark, started <a href="http://www.modspil.dk/itpolitik/">blogging about
     Free Software and FSFE in Danish</a>.  <a
     href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/repentinus/english/2014/01/25/manchester-cryptoparty-on-dec-7-2013/">FSFE's
     local group in Manchester ran a Cryptoparty</a> and explained public/private
     key encryption with actual locks, keys, and a diary. We had our <a
       href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2013/12/first-fellowship-meeting-in-aschaffenburg/">first
       Fellowship meeting in Aschaffenburg</a>, and at the <a
       href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/01/fellowship-meeting-rheinmain-in-frankfurt-jan-2014/">meeting
       in Frankfurt</a> local Free Software activists discussed <a
       href="http://ilovefs.org">I love Free Software</a>, <a
       href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day</a>, <a
       href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">PDFreaders</a>, <a
     href="http://theydontwantyou.to">TheyDontWantYou.to</a>, the local event
   Fuxcon, and CryptoParties.</li>
 
  <li>Interesting news about Free Software in education are covered in <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/01/free-software-in-education-news-december">Guido
  Arnold's latest update</a>,</li>

  <li>and an edited version of Benjamin Mako Hill's talk <a
    href="http://mako.cc/copyrighteous/when-free-software-isnt-better-talk">"When
  Free Software isn't better" is now available</a>.</li>

  <li>From the <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>

    <li><a href="http://danielpocock.com/debian-sip-federation">Debian.org
      enabled SIP federation</a>. Furthermore Daniel Pocock describes how easy it
      is to have a <a
        href="http://danielpocock.com/webrtc-calling-firefox-android-chromium-linux">phone
        call from a mobile phone to a desktop system using WebRTC</a>.</li>

    <li>Fellow No 1, Mario Fux, wrote about the <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mario/?p=189">2014 Free Software meetings in
    Randa/Switzerland about several KDE topics, Open Street Map, and usability</a>.</li>

    <li>Who was the creator of an image, what is its terms of use, where was it
    created and when? This information often gets lost. Former FSFE's Vice
      President Jonas Öberg wants to fix this, and <a
        href="http://commonsmachinery.se/2014/01/another-year-of-fellowship/">received
        another year of funding by the Shuttleworth Foundation for working on
      Commons Machinery</a>.</li>

    <li>Are you looking for ways to get your children in touch with technology?
    Isabel Drost-Fromm was asked how to achieve that and <a
      href="http://blog.drost-fromm.de/posts/children-tinkering.html">wrote
      about it in "Children tinkering"</a>. But be careful, like mentioned in
      the <a
        href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2014/01/free-software-in-education-news-december/">quote
      from the December education news</a>: If your children start hacking, companies
    might want to hire them.</li>
 
    <li><a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2014/01/21/ec-copyright-consulation/">Lucile
    Falgueyrac organised a meeting about the European Commission's consultation
  on copyright</a> to share knowledge about the consultation, and she <a
href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/lucile.falg/2014/01/28/interview-rt-russia-today/">wrote
about her first television interview in Russia Today</a>.</li>

     <li>The KDE Community released a tech preview of the upcoming KDE 5
    Frameworks, <a
    href="http://creative-destruction.me/2014/01/07/kde-frameworks-5-tech-preview-released-with-updated-threadweaver/">
  Mirko Böhm summarised the changes</a>.</li>

    <li>Tobias Platen wrote about <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/tobias_platen/2014/01/05/gnulinux-on-mobile-devices-and-single-board-computers/">GNU/Linux
    on mobile devices and single board computers</a>.</li>
    
    <li>Paul Boddie wrote an article about <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=635">"Python 3: I Told You
    So?"</a> explaining why it may be easier for users to choose another
  technology entirely than to deal with version 3,</li>

    <li>and your editor found his <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/memories-about-some-old-free-software-floppies-and-cds">old Free
    Software floppies and CDs</a>, and remembered how he got involved in Free
  Software.</li>
   
  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: You love Free Software? Show it!</h2>

<p>Free Software eases our daily life and ensures we can work and create in
freedom. In many cases, we do not pay for these tools and yet we write bug
reports to make the developer improving his software even more. On 14 February
we ask you to show your love to the people working on the Free Software you
use. For example, you could prepare a "love letter" telling the developers of a
certain program why you love their work, include <a
href="/campaigns/ilovefs/2014/banners.html">banners or buttons</a> on your
website, (micro)blog about your favourite piece of software, or <a
href="https://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/discussion/2014-January/009966.html">help
us collecting quotes</a> by well-known people and yourself. On "<a
href="http://ilovefs.org">I love Free Software day</a>", it is time to give
back.</p>

<p>In Manchester, our local group is even celebrating Free Software with a
week-long event. The "<a href="http://freeasinfreedom.org.uk/?page_id=88">I
  love Free Software Festival</a>" takes place from 3 to 8 February 2014 and
  focusses especially on Bitcoin, Wordpress, encryption, and <a
    href="/campaigns/android/android.html">Free Your Android</a>. It is a great
  opportunity to meet other likeminded people in MadLab's great atmosphere.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>, <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>
    </div>
    <!--/e-content-->

</body>
        <sidebar promo="about-fsfe"><!--
            <h3>FSFE News</h3>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="/news/">Press Releases</a></li>
                <li><a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/">Planet Blogs</a></li>
                <li><a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a></li>
            </ul>
        --></sidebar>
<author id="kirschner" />
<date>
<original content="2014-02-04" />
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
