<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html newsdate="2018-06-01" type="newsletter">
<head>
	<title>FSFE Newsletter - June 2016</title>
</head>
<body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201606">
	<h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - June 2016</h1>


<h2 id="fsfe-co-signed-the-letter-on-net-neutrality">FSFE co-signed letter on net neutrality</h2>

<p>FSFE together with 72 organisations 
<a href="https://akvorrat.at/sites/default/files/20160502_nn_berec_civilsocietyletter_signed.pdf">signed 
a letter to the EU telecom regulators in support of strong net neutrality 
rules</a> in the on-going negotiations for the guidelines on the implementation 
of the recently adopted EU Regulation 2015/2120. The Regulation creates a 
basis for strong net neutrality, and FSFE together with other organisations 
from all over the world asks the Body of European Regulators of Electronic 
Communication (BEREC) and the 28 national telecom regulators to uphold 
these rules and to establish strong net neutrality guidelines around Europe.</p>

<h2 id="from-free-software-misunderstandings-to-software-at-cern---fsfe-busy-at-events">From 
Free Software misunderstandings to software at CERN - FSFE busy at events</h2>

<p>The past month was full of events and talks, with FSFE staff and team 
members being present on several occasions. Talks and presentations make 
a large part of our work to reach out and communicate our message to 
people from different backgrounds.</p>

<p>FSFE's president Matthias Kirschner gave a short talk during 
<a href="https://re-publica.de/16/session/freie-software-missverstandnisse-gekonnt-aufklaren">Re:publica TEN</a> 
about how to counter Free Software misunderstandings. He also participated 
as a speaker at the Croatian Linux Users' Conference 
<a href="http://2016.dorscluc.org/activity/29/#activity">DORS / CLUC</a> 
in Zagreb, Croatia, where he gave a keynote about "The long way to empower 
people to control technology".</p>

<p>During the foss-north conference in Gothenburg, Sweden, FSFE's vice 
president Alessandro Rubini gave a talk on "Time in Software 
and Hardware - how time is handled in the Linux kernel and in the White 
Rabbit network at CERN", and FSFE's executive director, Jonas Öberg, 
presented a talk about the "State of Free Software in Europe (and elsewhere)".</p>

<p>German Coordinator Max Mehl gave a talk about Radio 'Lockdown' 
Directive during the Wireless Battle of the Mesh v9, in Porto, Portugal, 
and your co-editor Polina Malaja gave an overview on the same topic 
during the Wireless Community Weekend 2016in Berlin, Germany.</p>

<p>Last but not least, FSFE's Austrian coordinator Peter Bubestinger 
<a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/pb/?p=165">gave a talk about Free Software 
in schools</a> at the Open Source Conference Albania OSCAL.</p>

<h2 id="from-the-community">From the community</h2>
<ul>
<li><p>Torsten Grote 
<a href="https://blog.grobox.de/2016/briar-next-step-of-the-crypto-messenger-evolution/">gives 
an overview of recent security innovations in instant messaging in his 
blogpost about "Briar - Next Step of The Crypto Messenger Evolution"</a>. 
Briar is aiming at becoming a peer-to-peer messenger which is entirely 
Free Software: it utilises end-to-end encryption with forward secrecy and 
does not require its users to disclose their metadata (i.e. the content 
of their address-books and how frequently they talk to their contacts). 
These criteria will help in offering a secure and privacy-friendly 
messenger that is available for everyone to use freely.</p></li>

<li><p>Elena Grandi 
<a href="http://social.gl-como.it/display/3e3ce0df12572dd2557bdda693148259">described 
her experience with OpenPandora</a>, a handheld game console and a mobile 
personal computer. On this occasion, Elena also anticipated the pros 
and cons of the successor device Pyra.</p></li>

<li><p>Diderik van Wingerden blogged about his perception of future 
innovations and the role of Free Software in it by compiling a list of 
sources that helped him in 
<a href="http://think-innovation.com/blog/shaping-a-vision-of-the-future/">"Shaping a vision of the future"</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>Our executive director Jonas Öberg wrote about the 
<a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/automated-testing-of-algorithms/">Videorooter 
project and its automated testing of algorithms</a>. The code is now 
connected to Github repositories and automated tests of algorithms are 
run every time someone improves the code.</p></li>

<li><p>Björn Schießle read the coalition contract of the new 
government in Baden-Württemberg, a state of Germany, and 
<a href="http://blog.schiessle.org/2016/05/10/freie-software-im-koalitionsvertrag-baden-wurttemberg/">analysed 
how they promise to promote Free Software</a> (German).</p></li>

<li><p>Christian Widerström made an 
<a href="https://blog.widerstroem.com/weblog/4/veranstaltungen-oesterreich-2016-part-i">overview
 of the upcoming activities and events that the Austrian FSFE team will 
 be participating in</a> (German).</p></li>
 
<li><p>The project "Sustainable use of older laptops with Linux and Free 
Software", mainly run by Fellow Wolf-Dieter Zimmermann, 
<a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/wromey/2016/05/06/projekt-nachhaltige-nutzung-auch-alterer-laptops-mit-linux-und-freier-software-erhalt-den-rwe-nachhaltigkeitspreis/">has 
been given the RWE Sustainability Award</a>. The project helps people to 
migrate to Free Software and to make use of their old hardware with a 
proper GNU/Linux installation (German).</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="what-else-have-we-done">What else have we done?</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>How to successfully campaign for Free Software in a way that is 
appealing both for the general public and politicians? FSFE teamed up 
with the <a href="https://www.pen.gg/">Peng! Collective</a> and 
learned from the latter's experience in campaigning during a weekend-long 
workshop. FSFE's Fellowship Representative Mirko Boehm 
<a href="https://creative-destruction.me/2016/05/04/how-to-campaign-for-the-cause-of-software-freedom/">summarised 
the outcome of the workshop in his blogpost</a>.</p></li>

<li><p>FSFE's Austrian team did a great job by being present with booths 
at <a href="https://blog.widerstroem.com/weblog/2/linuxwochen-wien-grazer-linuxtage">Linuxwochen 
Wien and Grazer Linuxtage (German)</a> and the local group in Berlin was 
present at the OpenTechSummit in Berlin, Germany.</p></li>

<li><p>Wolf-Dieter Zimmermann <a href="http://open-educational-resources.de/podlove/file/502/s/download/c/select-show/OER027.mp3">gave 
an interview about the importance of Free Software in Open Educational 
Resources</a> (German).</p></li>

<li><p>Getting active for Free Software and doing this by working for 
the FSFE is increasingly attractive and we receive a lot of applications 
for our internship program each month. However, most of the applications 
we get do not make the cut. In his blogpost, our executive director 
Jonas Öberg <a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/are-you-the-fsfes-next-intern/">gave 
a few hints about how to succeed with your internship application</a> 
and make it to the FSFE team as an intern.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="take-action">Take Action</h2>

<p>Become a volunteer to maintain our blog platform! If you are interested 
in devops or system administration, we now offer an opportunity to polish 
your skills and learn new tricks by hosting a blog platform for thousands 
of our volunteers!</p>

<p>FSFE's blog platform is a service we provide to our volunteers to give 
them a place to write about their explorations of Free Software and their 
work in the FSFE. For a while, 
<a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/blogs-and-other-infrastructures/">the 
service has been in dire straits and in need of an upgrade</a>. Thanks 
to our wonderful volunteers who already stepped up and proposed their 
help in maintaining the platform, the service will be kept alive.</p>

<p>If you are interested in joining our blog platform team, get in touch 
with our blog team at blog-hackers (at) lists.fsfe.org.</p>

<h2 id="good-free-software-news">Good Free Software news</h2>
<p>The Hungarian government 
<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/hungary-increase-use-open-source-software">published 
a decree promoting the use of Free Software and Open Standards in
public administrations</a>. The country's Ministry of Interior is bound 
to start a central licence registry for software used by the public sector 
and report yearly on the progress made in use of Free Software and Open 
Standards. Meanwhile, 
France <a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/france%E2%80%99s-rgi-v2-recommends-odf">revised 
its interoperability guidelines which from now on recommend ODF as a 
standard communication format between public administrations and citizens</a>. 
Sweden's Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan) is 
<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/sweden%E2%80%99s-insurer-open-source-maximises-it-efficiency">determined 
to adhere to its Free Software strategy and to sustain the Free Software 
solutions it uses</a>, according to the planned updates of the strategy 
to be published in June. As stated by the Social Insurance Agency, 
Free Software maximises value of IT by allowing its efficient use.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the
<a href="/contribute/contribute.html">volunteers</a>
,
<a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a>
and
<a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">corporate donors</a>
who enable our work,</p>

<p>your editors Polina Malaja and Erik Albers, <a href="/index.html">FSFE</a></p>
</body>

<sidebar promo="about-fsfe"/>
<date>
	<original content="2018-06-01"/>
</date>
<followup>donate</followup>
<tags>
	<tag>newsletter</tag>
</tags>

</html>
