<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2012-11-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - November 2012</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - November 2012</h1>

<h2>Rooting and flashing your device does not void the warranty in EU</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">Most of the participants in our <a href="/campaigns/android/android.html">Free Your Android</a>
workshops are concerned whether rooting your device (e.g. an
Android phone) and replacing its operating system with something else voids
your statutory warranty as consumer. We asked our legal coordinator
Matija Šuklje and FSFE legal council Carlo Piana to analyse the problem. <a
  href="http://matija.suklje.name/rooting-and-flashing-your-device-does-not-void-the-warranty-in-eu">Their
  answer is: No.</a> "Just the fact that you modified or changed the software
of your device, is not a sufficient reason to void your statutory warranty. As
long as you have bought the device as a consumer in the European Union." Read throughout
their <a
  href="http://matija.suklje.name/rooting-and-flashing-your-device-does-not-void-the-warranty-in-eu">
  analysis</a>.</p>

<p>We hope these news will encourage people to flash their devices with Free
Software. Next opportunity to attend on of our Free Your Android workshop is on
the 9th of November at <a href="/events/2012/fscons-2012.html">FSCONS</a>, in
Sweden, and on the 16th of November <a
  href="https://2012.sfscon.it/en/program">at SFSCON</a>, in Italy.</p>

<h2>Facts about software patents by the New York Times</h2>

<p>The New York Times published an article entitled <a
  href="https://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/08/technology/patent-wars-among-tech-giants-can-stifle-competition.html">
  "The Patent, Used as a Sword"</a> about the patent system. Hugo Roy 
 <a href="
  http://blog.hugoroy.eu/2012/10/10/some-facts-about-the-us-patent-system/">summaries
  it</a>. It is about how Apple and Google were spending more on
patents than on research and development in 2011. Among other issues, it focuses on the number of lawsuits
filed each year in the US, which has tripled from 1990 to 2010, and how 70% of patent
applications are approved after the applicant altered claims.</p>

<p>On the same topic, Karsten Gerloff <a
  href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/27/epo-debate-how-software-patents-are-delaying-the-future/">gave
  a talk about "How Software Patents Are Delaying The Future"</a>, on a
discussion panel organised by the European Patent Office. "Currently, a lot of
policy on patents (as well as copyright) is made on the basis of faith and
rather dubious argument. We urgently need to move on towards evidence-based
policy making", concludes Karsten. </p>

<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>FSFE will <a href="/events/2012/fscons-2012.html">have a track focused
    on general purpose computing at FSCONS</a> in Gothenburg from 9th to 11th
  November. Karsten Gerloff will talk about <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/27/epo-debate-how-software-patents-are-delaying-the-future/">software
    patents</a>, Erik Albers about the <a
    href="/campaigns/android/android.html">Free Your Android campaign</a>, Sam
  Tuke will give a preview about a new campaign FSFE will launch soon, and your
  editor gives a general overview about general purpose computing. In other
  tracks, Otto Kekäläinen gives two talks, one about <a
    href="/news/2012/news-20121022-01.html">"Dirty tactics against LibreOffice
    in public administration and how to overcome them"</a> and another about
  "How to fix public procurement"; and Hugo Roy will present his project <a
    href="http://tos-dr.info/">"Terms of Services; Didn't Read"</a>. And there
  are <a href="https://fscons.org/2012/schedule/">other interesting talks</a>.
  </li>

  <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=628">Chris
    Woolfrey interviewed Hugo Roy</a>, FSFE's French Team coordinator and
  co-founder of <a href="http://www.libertesnumeriques.net/">the Digital Freedoms association</a>.
  He joined FSFE in 2009 as an
  intern, assisting FSFE president Karsten Gerloff. In France, Hugo is also
  active with <a href="http://www.april.org/">April</a> and <a 
  href="http://www.fdn.fr/">the French Data Network</a>.</li>

 
  <li>Last month your editor <a
    href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=1017">visited Benjamin Mako Hill, John
    Sullivan, Richard Stallman, and the FSF office staff</a> in Boston. There was 
   a lot happening at our sister organisation: They <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/news/the-free-software-foundation-opens-nominations-for-the-15th-annual-free-software-awards">
    opened nominations</a> for the 15th Annual Free Software Awards; they <a
    href="http://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/gnus-trick-or-treat-at-windows-8-launch">crashed
    the Microsoft Windows 8 launch event</a> in New York City with a cheerful
  GNU; Libby Reinish wrote about the <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/community/happy-ada-lovelace-day">Ada
    Lovelace Day</a>, a day to celebrate women's contributions to science and
  technology; the LulzBot AO-100 3D Printer was <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/news/hardware-certification-aleph-objects-lulzbot-3d-printer">
    awarded the first "Respects Your Freedom" (RYF) certification</a>; and
  Donald Robertson <a
    href="https://www.fsf.org/blogs/licensing/jeremy-allison-on-why-samba-switched-to-gplv3">published
    a presentation from Jeremy Allison</a> explaining why Samba chose the GNU
  GPL version 3.</li>

  <li><a
    href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/news/contribution-open-source-europes-economy-450-billion-year">
    A study from Carlo Daffara</a> concluded that Free Software is
  contributing 450 billion Euro per year to Europe's economy. You are contributing to it!</li>
 
  <li>The European Commission's joinup portal is <a
    href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/software/federated_forge">listing different
    national and regional Free Software repositories</a>.</li>

  <li>From our Fellowship <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: </li>

  <ul>

     <li>Thomas Løcke wrote about the <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/thomaslocke/2012/10/28/mediagoblin-an-emerging-free-and-open-media-publishing-platform/">GNU
      MediaGoblin</a> crowdsourcing campaign. Its goal is to improve posting,
    sharing and commenting on media, with Free Software and with keeping more
    control of your data. <a
      href="http://oskar.twoday.net/STORIES/169431527/">Oskar Welzl also
      donated to GNU Media Goblin</a>, as he wants to have an alternative to
    Flickr and YouTube.</li>
   
    <li>Ana is <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/anaghz/2012/10/29/a-run-for-fs-i-destroying-the-myths-surrounding-fs/">
      destroying some myths surrounding Free Software</a>. She also wrote about
    the <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/anaghz/2012/10/04/social-media-and-the-concept-of-freedom/">
      "Social media and the concept of 'freedom'"</a> and her <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/anaghz/2012/09/26/free-sotfware-baptism-of-fire/">experiences
      from changing keyboard layouts</a> after setting up an encrypted hard
    disk. In general she concludes "My computer is working better and I am
    starting to understand software a bit better".</li>
  
    <li>Karl Beecher reports, that in 1974 <a
      href="http://computerfloss.com/2012/10/arthur-c-clarke-predicting-computing-in-2001-back-in-1974">Arthur
      C. Clarke predicted</a> in a video that by 2001 we will all have small
    computers that can fit on a desk in our own home, and they will even be
    inter-connected with other computers across the world. (While watching your
    editor noticed how picky he is about fan noise.)</li>
    
    <li>Erik explained <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/eal/2012/10/12/why-become-a-supporter-of-fsfe/">
      why you should become a supporter of FSFE</a>. Currently, we <a
      href="https://fsfe.org/support/stats">have 1233 supporters</a>, and if
    the growth continues at the same pace, we will have 5733 in a year. Thanks
    also to all of you promoting the supporter, like <a
      href="http://lionel.montrieux.eu/2012/09/26/become-a-supporter-of-fsfe/">Lionel
      Montrieux</a>, <a href="http://oskar.twoday.net/stories/156263488/">Oskar
      Wenzel</a>, and others.</li>
   
    <li>Interested in tablets and phones? Henri looks into how to be <a
      href="http://bergie.iki.fi/blog/tablet-productivity">productive with
      them</a>. Our Finnish Fellows describe how to <a
      href="http://seravo.fi/2012/10/trying-out-meego-offspring-mer-and-nemo-on-exopc-wetab">
      install the Meego offspring Mer and Nemo on ExoPC tablet (WeTab)</a> and
    Timo wrote about the <a
      href="http://losca.blogspot.de/2012/10/openphoenux-gta04.html">Bavarian
      phone OpenPhoenux GTA04</a> and <a
      href="http://losca.blogspot.de/2012/10/uds-gta04-hacking.html">how to
      hack on it</a>.</li>

    <li>Sam Tuke described how to install <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=420"> static website generator
      webgen</a> (which we use for <a
      href="http://pdfreaders.org">pdfreaders.org</a>), and <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=428">how to install the Android
      Emulator in Fedora 17</a>, that lets you to test applications without having an
    Android phone.</li>
 
    <li>Do you want to know why Telepathy is awesome? Read <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/drdanz/?p=747">Daniele Domenichelli's blog
      post</a>. Also, and related to KDE, Torsten Grote <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2012/10/03/compiling-kde-kontact-from-source/">explains
      how to build Kontact on Debian Sid</a>. In fact, KDE became 16 last month.
    Congrats and thanks to all Free Software hackers in KDE! Continue being awesome.</li>

    <li>Our legal coordinator Matija is <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/understanding-how-python-counts">
      learning to program Python </a> and he <a
      href="http://matija.suklje.name/fsfe-legal-office-hours-in-cyberpipe">
      announced</a> to work one day a week from Cyberpipe, Slovenian's biggest
    hacklab.</li>

  </ul>

</ul>

<h2>Get active: Every buck, fixes a bug!</h2>

<p>A lot of you already signed our <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/petition.html"> Petition For The Removal Of
  Proprietary Software Advertising On Public Institution Websites</a>, and now
we ask you for your support to enhance this campaign.</p>

<p>With the example of PDF readers we raised general awareness of proprietary
software advertisements on public administration's websites since September
2010. Until today our Petition was signed by 80 organisations, 58 businesses
and 2438 individuals. We contacted 2104 public administrations, and managed to
close 552 bugs (26%). So 552 federal government departments, municipalities,
and other administrations removed the advertisement, or added additional
references to Free Software PDF readers. And we will continue fixing the
remaining bugs. Just last month <a href="/news/2012/news-20120921-01.html">
  twenty Italian civil society organisations wrote a letter</a> to the
President of the Authority for the Protection of Personal Data, asking the
agency to ensure that all documents published on its website can be read and
used with Free Software programs.</p>

<p>However, we also received a lot of feedback from the public administration
and other institutions and political entities. One big task is to improve the
PDF readers  website, as it is one of our key tools in this campaign. With your
donation, we will be able to implement the planned new features for the website
until the 1st of February and after it, for its maintenance.</p>

<p>Please donate <a
  href="http://www.ulule.com/pdfreaders/">on the
  fundraising page</a>, which uses Ulule platform, and spread the news about
it. <strong>Update: Turn off Javascript before you follow the link to the donation page, to avoid running nonfree software</strong></p>


<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and 
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>
<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>

<p>-- <br />
<a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br />
<a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br />
<a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br />
<a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br />
<a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a> </p>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>
  <tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>


<timestamp>$Date: 2011-06-06 12:32:19 +0200 (Mon, 06 Jun 2011) $ $Author: mk $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
