<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2011-11-04" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - November 2011</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - November 2011</h1>

<h2>WWW would have been better if it was patented</h2>

<p newsteaser="yes">How long should copyright last? Should living beings or software be
patentable? The World Intellectual Property Organisation deals with this sort
of questions. Since 2004, we are involved in the WIPO to make sure they do not
harm Free Software. Our most important demand is that when it comes to
copyright and patents, the benefits should be weighed against the costs.</p>

<p>The new Director General Francis Gurry's said that the World Wide Web would
have been better if it was patented. This shows us that the current trend is in
the opposite direction. Read more about this in Karsten's article <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/10/24/wipo-sliding-back-into-the-dark-ages/">WIPO
  sliding back into the Dark Ages?</a>, our <a
  href="/projects/wipo/wipo.html">WIPO dossier</a>, and <a
  href="/projects/wipo/wiwo.html">support the Geneva Declaration</a>.</p> 
 

<h2>Daily business - step by step</h2>

<p>Why do FSFE so frequently give interviews and talks, and travel to promote
FSFE issues? Our mission is to promote freedom in emerging digital society. So
as you can see on our <a href="/events/events.html">events page</a> it is part
of our daily business to travel around, give talks, interviews, and organise
events.  Paul Boddie <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/pboddie/?p=54">improved our
  Fellowship event calendar</a> which now integrates GriCal. This way you can
subscribe to the calendar. If you are already subscribed to the the event's <a
  href="/events/events.rss">RSS feed</a> or the <a
  href="webcal://fsfe.org/events/events.en.ics">Ical feed</a> you can skip the
next paragraph.</p>
  
<p>So for example in October Karsten and Matija gave talks at LinuxCon Europe
in Prague, Sam gave a speech at the  <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=215">DIY Feminist Festival in
    Manchester</a>, our UK team had a booth at FLOSS UK Unconference 2011 in
  Manchester, your editor gave a talk about "10 misunderstandings about Free
  Software (or are they lies?)" at the technical university in Berlin, our
  Austrian coordinator Peter Bubestinger gave a talk "Free Software and Open
Formats: virtual immortality and independence for digital archives" at the
National Library in Vienna, and our French coordinator Hugo Roy organised a <a
    href="http://www.libertesnumeriques.net/evenements/stallman-19octobre2011?lang=en">talk
    on "A Free Digital Society" by Richard Stallman</a>.</p>

<p>On the interview front: Karsten gave a <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2011/10/24/wipo-sliding-back-into-the-dark-ages/">radio
  interview about our work at WIPO</a>, Hugo an interview to the French GNU
Linux Magazine Essentiel, your editor to the German <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=845">newspaper TAZ about Secure
  boot</a>.</p>


<h2>Something completely different</h2>

<ul>

  <li>Rikard Fröberg works at <a href="https://ffkp.se/">The Society for
    Free Culture and Software</a>,  and contributes this year to the <a
    href="http://fscons.org/">FSCONS</a> organisation and thereby supporting
  our <a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/mk/?p=840">Free Software in Politics
    track</a>. In the <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/fellowship-interviews/?p=446">October
    Fellowship Interview</a> he considers the importance of having an active
  and engaged community of users.</li>
  
  <li>Free Software from a human rights angle. Instead of just saying good-bye
  after the end of his internship, Diego wrote us a nice article as a gift: <a
    href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/diegojavier/2011/10/10/free-software-social-networks-for-social-change-against-censorship-a-look-into-recent-events-in-wall-street-and-egypt/1">"Free
    Software social networks for social change"</a>.</li>
  
  <li>A selection of interesting blog entries from our <a
    href="http://planet.fsfe.org">planet aggregation</a>: 

  <ul>

    <li>Denmark - Portugal 4:5.  The regular qualification for the EURO2012 in
    Free Software are over.  Which country has good Free Software and Open
    Standard practices? Guido Arnold <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/guido/2011/10/euro2012-in-free-software-regular-qualification-is-over/">
      looked at this</a>. (Even though they were not able to win against
    Belgium, your editor is happy that Germany qualified. It is difficult to
    compete against teams with such good players as <a
      href="http://www.fosdem.org">FOSDEM</a>.)</li>
    
    <li>New government in Denmark, read what <a
      href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/agger/2011/10/01/denmark-new-government-new-opportunities-for-free-software/">
      new opportunities Fellow Carsten Agger sees</a>.</li>

    <li>Converting letters into e-mails? Working on our <a
      href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">PDFreaders campaign</a>, Sam
    received letters from public administrations and had to forward them to our
    mailing list. So he took this opportunity to write about <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/samtuke/?p=227">Easy OCR on GNU/Linux with
      gImageReader"</a>.</li>

    <li>The first 100 customers matter! Writes <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=455">Georg Greve in his article
      about an Open climate for entrepreneurs in Europe</a>. Read more about
    Research and Development programmes, Silicon Valley, and software
    patents.</li>

    <li>UnRAR in freedom: Thanks to The Unarchiver initiative, we are now able
    to <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/2011/10/14/unrar-in-freedom/">extract
      recent rar files completely with Free Software</a>.</li>
    
    <li><a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/myriam/2011/10/when-is-a-bug-report-useful">When
      is a bug report useful?</a> Read the article, and file about to this
    month newsletter.</li>

    <li>KDE became 15 Years in October. Paul Adams wondered <a
      href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/padams/?p=251">how that does look
      like</a>.</li>

  </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Get Active: Document Freedom Day - Let's get ready to rumble</h2>

<p>Coordination for next years <a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document
  Freedom Day</a> is starting. Your editor is responsible for next years
international coordination, and shamelessly asks you to join the team,
subscribe to <a
  href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/listinfo/df-coordination">our
  mailinglist</a>, give input about the last year, help with campaign planing,
taking care of coordination events in a certain country, taking care with the
communication with partners, help with the organisation of events for next
year, help with setting up the new website, writting texts,
translate them, help with designing t-shirts and other promotion materials, or
if you do not have time, <a href="/donate/donate.en.html">make a donation</a>
to support us in this activity.</p>

<p>Thanks to all the <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Fellows</a> and
<a href="donate/thankgnus.html">donors</a> who enable our work,<br/>

<a href="/about/kirschner">Matthias Kirschner </a> - <a
  href="http://www.fsfe.org">FSFE</a>
</p>

<p>
-- <br/>
  <a href="/index.html">Free Software Foundation Europe</a><br/>
  <a href="/news/news.rss">FSFE News</a><br/>
  <a href="/events/events.rss">Upcoming FSFE Events</a><br/>
  <a href="http://planet.fsfe.org/en/rss20.xml">Fellowship Blog Aggregation</a><br/>
  <a href="/contact/community.html">Free Software Discussions</a>
</p>

</body>

−
<tags>
<tag>newsletter</tag>
<tag>Matthias Kirschner</tag>
</tags>
−
<timestamp>
$Date$ $Author$
</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
