<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-04-05" type="newsletter">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE Newsletter - April 2017</title>
  </head>
  <body class="newsletter article" microformats="h-entry" id="nl-201703">

    <h1 class="p-name">FSFE Newsletter - April 2017</h1>

    <h2 id="Free-Software-in-the-German-OGP-action-plan">Free Software in the German OGP action plan</h2>

    <p newsteaser="yes">Last December, Germany joined the 
    <a href="https://www.opengovpartnership.org/">Open Government 
    Partnership</a> and now has until June 2017 to develop and decide
    on an action plan. Increased transparency and continuous reporting, 
    governmental effectiveness and citizen-friendly administration are
    all part of the goals of Open Government.</p>

    <p>The FSFE has worked together with other organisations and the 
    "working group OGP" Germany to summarise the topic of Free Software
     in the Open Government context and provide concrete action items,
     along with a short but illuminating introduction into the topic
     and a vision for 2030. The recommendations were submitted to the
     German government in March.</p>

    <p>The proposal was the outcome of a workshop, held by the German
     Government in February, with the contribution of numerous
     civil society representatives, including the FSFE. By 
     <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170328-01.en.html">
	 publishing our suggestions</a>, we hope to enable civil society 
	 actors worldwide to learn about the OGP discussion in Germany and
	 use these suggestions in other countries.</p>

    <hr />
    <p>Help us grow and make a difference in 2017
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/join/nl2017-04">
    https://fsfe.org/join</a></p>
    <hr />

    <h2 id="what-else-have-we-done?-inside-and-Outside-the-fsfe">
    What else have we done? Inside and Outside the FSFE</h2>

    <ul>

      <li> In the Dutch elections, <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170302-01.en.html">
	  Freedomvote.nl</a>, initiated by the Dutch FSFE group, compared
	  party positions on digital freedom and not only helped voters
	  to make up their minds, but also gave a taste of what to expect
	  by the newly elected parties' digital policies.</li>

      <li> Last month, <a href="https://fsfe.org/associates/associates.en.html">
	  we welcomed as an associated organisation, Dyne.org - a 
	  non-profit think/do tank</a> with more than 10 years of 
	  expertise in developing Free Software tools and narratives for
	  community empowerment.</li>

      <li>On March 7, <a href="ttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPd5N2Y5nuM">
	  Matthias Kirschner put the spotlight on LiMux</a> at the talk 
	  he gave at <a href="https://digitalegesellschaft.de/2017/03/58-npa/">
	  the 58. Netzpolitischer Abend</a> in Berlin, and on March 28, 
	  <a href="https://ansol.org/FSFE-palestra">he shared his views 
	  with the audience at the ISCTE–University Institute of Lisbon 
	  in Portugal</a> concerning ways to empower people to use
	  technology. Matthias also participated in a longer 
	  <a href="http://www.pietcast.com/folge-0026-limux/">podcast 
	  in German about LiMux</a>.</li>
      
      <li>On March 11-12,<a href="https://chemnitzer.linux-tage.de/2017/en"> 
      the FSFE returned to Chemnitzer Linux-Tage</a>, Germany's 
      biggest Free Software conference, held in the University
      of Chemnitz. We arranged an information booth and Max Mehl
      spoke about the developments around the 
      <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/radiodirective/index.html">
      EU Radio "Lockdown" Directive</a>.</li>
      
      <li>On March 20, Olga Gkotsopoulou, Polina Malaja and Lusy Vaseva
      <a href="https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/oscibar2017_session17">
	  presented the FSFE's Position Paper for the endorsement of Free
      Software and Open Standards in Horizon 2020 and all publicly-funded
      research</a> and facilitated a discussion about the role of Free
      Software in Open Science at <a href="https://www.open-science-conference.eu/barcamp/">
      the Open Science Barcamp in Berlin</a>.</li>
      
      <li><a href="http://www.fsf.org/news/securedrop-and-alexandre-oliva-are-2016-free-software-awards-winners">
	  The winners of the 2016 Free Software Awards were announced by
	  the Free Software Foundation</a> during the LibrePlanet 2017 
	  conference. The Award for Projects of Social Benefit was given to
	  SecureDrop, an anonymous whistleblowing platform, maintained by 
	  Freedom of the Press Foundation, while the Award for the Advancement
	  of Free Software went to Alexandre Oliva, an advocate of Free
	  Software and the GNU Project.</li>
      
      <li><a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/franz.gratzer/2017/03/10/booth-veganmania-indoor-2017/">
	  The Vienna FSFE group held an information booth at Veganmania 
	  indoor festival 2017.</a></li>
      
      <li>Jonas Öberg wrote about the <a href="http://blog.jonasoberg.net/policy-whys-that">
	  the need to work more with governments and local municipalities</a>
	  in order to encourage uptake of Free Software friendly policies in
	  procurement and development of IT systems. The FSFE policy team
	  has intensified its efforts towards this direction and 
	  <a href="https://fsfe.org/fellowship/ams/join.php?ams=join">asks 
	  for everyone's support.</a></li>
	  
	  <li>If you're interested in discussions about Free Software on 
	  Android, you can join FSFE's <a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/android">
	  android mailing list</a>, which Matthias Kirschner highlighted in 
	  his introduction to <a href="https://k7r.eu/testing-signal-without-google-account/">
	  installing Signal without a Google account or Google Play</a>.</li>
	  
	  <li> <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170315-01.en.html">
	  In February, we celebrated the "I Love Free Software day" for the 
	  8th consecutive year</a>. People all over the world used the 
	  occasion to declare their love and affection not only to their 
	  significant other, but to the whole Free Software community. 
	  This year's celebrations had everything: 
	  <a href="https://fsfe.org/campaigns/ilovefs/whylovefs/gallery.en.html">
	  a FOSDEM photobooth in Brussels</a>, <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/graphics/ilovefs-roses.jpg">
	  letters and flowers for the German Parliament</a>, light projections 
	  <a href="http://bit.ly/2ltZM4H"> in the streets of Berlin</a> 
	  and <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/blixxter/32872437596/">
	  Frankfurt</a>, creative <a href="http://www.elektrollart.de/?p=4503">
	  artworks</a>, a bright program of IloveFS events, 
	  <a href="https://blog.3rik.cc/2017/02/free-software-ergo-sum/">
	  funny memes</a>, songs, microblogging as well as longer blogposts 
	  from individuals, politicians and supporting organisations.</li>
      
      <li>Are you currently a student? Is an internship, a compulsory part
      of your studies curriculum? Are you fluent in German and English
      and interested in the politics around Free Software? Then, 
      <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170321-01.de.html">check
      our new intern vacancy announcement</a>, for a position in our 
      office in Berlin, from June till October 2017. And don't forget,
      that we're still able to accept additional student interns for 
      2017. <a href="https://fsfe.org/news/2017/news-20170116-01.html">
	  Apply now</a> and don't miss the opportunity to become part of a 
	  great international and diverse team, based in Berlin!</li>
    </ul>

    <h2 id="get-active">Get active</h2>
   
    <p>Fellowship elections 2017: According to 
    <a href="https:///www.fsfe.org/about/legal/constitution.html#id-fellowship-seats">
	our constitution</a>, two seats in the <a href="https:///www.fsfe.org/about/team#general-assembly">
	General Assembly</a> are reserved for elected representatives of our 
	Fellows. They serve two-year terms and one seat is up for re-election
	every year. The electoral process 2017 covers the period from April
	10 till April 24. Eight candidates are running for office in the 
	FSFE's General Assembly. You can find the list of candidates, along 
	with their manifestos and background as well as the elections schedule 
	and voting procedure, in <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/Migrated/FellowshipElection_2017">
	our dedicated Fellowship Election 2017 page</a>. All Fellows
	eligible to vote will automatically receive an email with all
	necessary information.</p>


    <h2 id="help-us-improve-our-newsletter">Help us improve
    our newsletter</h2>

    <p>If you see some news you think should be included, forward
    it to us. If you'd like to share any thoughts, send them to us.
    The address is as always newsletter@fsfe.org. We're looking
    forward to hearing from you!</p>

    <p>Thanks to all
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.en.html">
    volunteers</a>,
    <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join/nltr17">
    supporters</a> and
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus.en.html">
    donors</a> who make our work possible.</p>
    <p>your editors Jonas Öberg, Olga Gkotsopoulou, Lusy Vaseva

    <a href="https://fsfe.org">FSFE</a></p>
    <hr />
    <p>Help us grow and make a difference in 2017
    <a href="https://fsfe.org/join/nl2017-04">
    https://fsfe.org/join</a></p>
    <hr />
  </body>
  <sidebar promo="about-fsfe" />
  <date>
    <original content="2017-04" />
  </date>
  <followup>donate</followup>
  <tags>
    <tag>newsletter</tag>
  </tags>
</html>
