<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">Microsoft against free competition</a>

    <h1>FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</h1>

    <p class="background">
		Working with the Samba developers, FSFE's role was to ensure that Free
		Software developers would not be prevented from using information
		published as a result of the European Commission's antitrust case
		against Microsoft.
    </p>

    <h2>Representation of developer's interest</h2>

    <p>
		FSFE played two key roles in this case.  First, we represented the
		interests of Free Software developers.  E.g. in our official role as
		Intervener, we pushed the European Commission to reject any royalty
		requirements that would be incompatible with Free Software.  We also
		argued constantly for the publication of good quality technical
		documentation and against lock-out of Free Software based on arbitrary
		manipulations of formats and standards.
    </p>

    <h2>Incorruptible</h2>

    <p>
		Second, FSFE was a public interest organisation who couldn't be bought
		off. The case began with many companies giving testimony of Microsoft's
		breaches of antitrust regulation, but one-by-one these companies made
		deals with Microsoft and withdrew from the case. FSFE and SIIA were the
		only two organisations that pursued this case from start to finish. We
		were later joined by ECIS, who did extraordinary work, but there were
		moments when it got lonely for the Commission.
    </p>

    <h2>Getting interoperability information</h2>

    <p>
		At the heart of this case was that the European Commission would require
		Microsoft to publish interoperability information.  Comparable to
		dictionaries and grammar books for human languages, this type of
		information is necessary for non-Microsoft software, such as Samba
		running on GNU/Linux, to communicate and function fully within existing
		client-server Microsoft networks.
    </p>
    <p>
		Previously, the Samba developers had to figure this information out by
		protocol analysis only. This information that Microsoft had was not
		secret because it was valuable. It was valuable only because it was
		secret.
    </p>

    <h2>Investigation case won every ruling</h2>

    <p>
		Thanks also to the persistent work by Carlo Piana, Andrew Tridgell,
		Jeremy Allison, Volker Lendecke, Georg Greve and other people acting on
		FSFE and Samba's behalf, the investigation case won every ruling - From
		the European Commission in Brussels to the European Court of Justice in
		Luxembourg.
    </p>

    <h2>Interoperable applications now possible</h2>

    <p>
		Information has now been published and is being used by the developers
		of Samba and many other projects to improve network interoperability
		for Free Software applications.  This facilitates migration to Free
		Software.  The court rulings have also set important precedents
		regarding unacceptable business practices.
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Talstraße 110, 40217 Düsseldorf, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
	    http://fsfe.org/projects/ms-vs-eu<br/>
    </address>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
