<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Associate Organisations - About</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center><h2>About Associate Organisation Status</h2></center>

<p>Any organisation working in Free Software or a related field can
become an associate organisation of the FSF Europe. Normally these
organisations will be from Europe, but that is not strictly
necessary. Any organisation in the world that feels close or attached
to the European spirit could apply.</p>

<p>Although we try to find at least one organisation to work with
closely in every European country, there is no exclusivity. So there
can easily be more than one associated organisation per country. Also
associated organisations of the FSF Europe can still ally themselves
with other organisations. </p>

<p>Of course it would seem odd if an organisation associated with the
FSF Europe formally allied with an organisation opposing the goals of
the FSF Europe. There is nothing to prevent it from happening, but in
that case it would seem likely that the FSF Europe would dissolve the
association after discussion with that associate.</p>

<p>There are no prerequisites regarding statutes, membership
structures, finances or such. Associate organisations are entirely
independent and autonomous.</p>

<p>It does not seem useful to associate with an organisation that does
not share the spirit of freedom and philosophy, however. So what the
FSF Europe generally wants to see in an organisation that wishes to
associate with it is a dedication to Free Software and its deeper
implications.</p>

<p>That also includes the wish to educate people and build awareness
for the fundamental issues around freedom in a digital society.</p>

<p>As the effectiveness of this is at least partially based upon using
the best and most precise terminology available, we also wish our
associates to (just like us) avoid terms that tend to create confusion
and spread misinformation.</p>

<p>Yes, this does include referring to the GNU/Linux system as
"GNU/Linux" (see "<a
href="http://www.gnu.org/gnu/why-gnu-linux.html">Why GNU/Linux?</a>"
for reference) and using Free Software or the adequate term in the
local language, avoiding the "Open Source" terminology (see "<a
href="/documents/whyfs.html">We speak about Free Software</a>" for
reference).</p>

<h3>How to become an associate organisation</h3>

<p>Given that the majority of members in your organisation feels close
to the philosophy, issues and work of the FSF Europe and wishes to
cooperate more closely as an associate organisation, how do you
proceed?</p>

<p>The basic process is very simple. You need to make a formal
decision within your organisation about applying for associate
status. This will most likely involve a general assembly for
democratic organisations.</p>

<p>Then the representative of your organisation should write mail to
team@fsfeurope.org, informing us about your application for associate
status.</p>

<p>If we do not know you yet, or feel there is some question that we
don't know the answer to regarding your organisation, we may ask you a
few questions before having an internal discussion about your
application.</p>

<p>If the FSF Europe accepts the application, you will receive mail by
the president or vice-president of the FSF Europe, making you an
official associate.</p>

<p>Then we will possibly create/connect communication channels (if it
seems useful) to improve communication between us. Also we will give
you access to the FSF Europe web site (if you don't have it already)
and create your associate web area at /associates/&lt;yourorg&gt;/ where you
can put information about/from your organisation for visitors of the
FSF Europe web site.</p>

<p>The rest we make up as we go along.</p>

<p>If you still have questions about this, please send mail to
team@fsfeurope.org</p>

  </body>
  <timestamp>
    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->
  </timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
