<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Our associated organisations - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/about/about.html">About</a></p>
    <h1>Our associated organisations</h1>

    <p>The Free Software Foundation Europe is empowering people to control
    technology. That is a goal which no single organisation can achieve alone.
    There are many groups who work successfully on this goal. Some help
    individuals and organisations to understand how Free Software contributes
    to freedom, transparency, and self-determination. Others enhance users'
    rights by abolishing barriers to Free Software adoption.  Or they focus on
    encouraging people to use and develop Free Software.</p>

    <p>No matter what focus or legal status you group has; we believe it is
    important to join forces and work together to reach our common goals.  With
    our associated organisations we want to show that we are a strong movement.
    We exchange ideas, coordinate efforts, motivate each other, and find
    opportunities to work together on specific projects.</p>

    <p>If you decided in your group to become an associated organisation,
    please get in contact with us.</p>

    <em>If you are a company and want to show your support for our goals, we
      recommend to become <a href="/donate/thankgnus.html">donor of FSFE</a> or
      one of our associated organisations below.</em>

    <associates/>
    
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
