<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-05-06">
	<head>
		<title>Open Letter to the European Commission: Stop DRM in HTML5</title>
	</head>
	<body class="press release">

    <h1>Open Letter to the European Commission: Stop DRM in HTML5</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">At today's <a href="http://dayagainstdrm.org/">"Day
      against DRM"</a> the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) has sent <a
      href="/activities/drm/open-letter-ec-drm-html.html">an open letter to the
      European Commission regarding closer integration of Digital Restriction
      Measures (DRM) by W3C</a>.</p>

    <p>The FSFE is concerned about efforts currently in progress at the World
    Wide Web Consortium, which oversees many of the key standards on which the
    Internet and the World Wide Web are based, to encourage use of Digital
    Restriction Management (DRM) technology through the Encrypted Media
    Extension (EME) and the Content Decryption Module (CDM).</p>

    <p>This extension's primary purpose is to satisfy the desire of a limited
    number of content providers with traditional business models to generate
    revenue through restrictive distribution practices. With EME, the W3C would
    be building a bridge to let content providers take control of users'
    computers.</p>
 
    <blockquote><p>"Integrating DRM facilities into HTML5 is the antithesis of
      everything that has made the Internet and the World Wide Web  successful.
      It is directly contrary to the interests of the vast  majority of
      Internet users everywhere, and especially in Europe.", says the FSFE's
      President Karsten Gerloff.</p></blockquote>

    <p>Auditing such DRM parts will be hard, because the source code of this
    functionality will be a closely held secret of the company which provides
    it. Performing such an audit and reporting security flaws would also be
    illegal in the many countries which have adopted so-called
    "anti-circumvention" laws. Reporting a security problem in the DRM part
    would expose the reporter to the risk of prosecution for making a
    circumvention device. </p>

    <p>The FSFE recommends the European Commission to:</p>
    
    <ul> 
      
      <li>Engage with the W3C and ensure that the organisation takes
      these concerns on board as it decides on the adoption of the Encrypted
      Media Extension (EME).</li>
      
      <li>Underline the EC's commitment to the security and freedom of
      Europe's citizens by pledging not to make use of the Encrypted Media
      Extension in its own infrastructure, even if EME would be standardised by
      W3C.</li>
      
      <li>That they pressure W3C to require covenants from EME participants
      through which they promise not to take action against entities who report
      and demonstrate vulnerabilities in EME and the CDM; and covenants to
      safeguard entities who reverse-engineer and publish details of EME and
      CDM implementations for the purpose of interoperability, including
      interoperability with Free Software.</li> 

    </ul>

   </body>
    <sidebar news="free software, security">
    </sidebar>
    <tags>
        <tag>front-page</tag>
        <tag>drm</tag>
        <tag>w3c</tag>
    </tags>
</html>
