<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-12-15">
<head>
 <title>Protect your privacy - Help GnuPG hire a second developer!</title>
</head>
<body class="press release">
  <h1>Protect your privacy - Help GnuPG hire a second developer!</h1>
  <p newsteaser="yes">
    GnuPG is the world's leading privacy tool, with an estimated user
    base of more than four million people world-wide, and a thousand
    new users each day. It guards emails, files, and programs from
    snooping and spying on Windows, Mac, and GNU/Linux. This crucial
    program needs your help to keep going in 2015 and beyond.
  </p>
  <p>
    Ongoing government spying revelations have shown how little of our
    information is really safe. GnuPG is one of the few tools that can
    offer real protection. Edward Snowden used it to encrypt his
    communications with journalists. All companies and individuals
    running Free Software systems use it to protect their software
    against manipulation - sometimes without even knowing about it.
    Credit card data and backups are routinely encrypted through
    GnuPG, and the program will be needed for many years in the future
    to restore that data.
  </p>
  <p>
    GnuPG this is free of charge for all those people around the
    world, but it costs money to develop and maintain.  For more than
    a decade, g10<sup>code</sup> GmbH, the company owned and
    headed by GnuPG's principal author Werner Koch, has been bearing
    the majority of these costs. The company is seeking EUR 120,000 to
    carry on its work on GnuPG in 2015.
  </p>
  <p>
    With this money, the company will:
  </p>
  <ul>
    <li>hire a second developer to work on GnuPG</li>
    <li>maintain the GnuPG software and documentation</li>
    <li>put this vital bit of our privacy infrastructure on a more
        solid organisational footing, so that it will remain viable in
        the long term.</li>
  </ul>
  <p>
    There are no fancy fundraising videos or goodies. Every cent of
    your donation will directly support the future development of
    GnuPG.  Donors will be listed on the GnuPG website and in the next
    GnuPG release, unless they choose to remain anonymous.
  </p>
  <p>
    You can directly donate to the GnuPG project through this
    page:</p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      <a href="https://gnupg.org/donate/">https://gnupg.org/donate/</a>
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>
    If you can benefit from a donation receipt by a Germany charity
    you may donate to the GnuPG account at the WAU Holland Stiftung:
  </p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      Wau Holland Stiftung<br/>
      Commerzbank Kassel<br/>
      Königsplatz 32-34<br/>
      34117 Kassel / Germany<br/>
      IBAN: DE89 5204 0021 0277 2812 06<br/>
      BIC: COBADEFF520 or COBADEFFXXX<br/>
      Stichwort: GnuPG
    </p>
    <p>
      Bitcoin: 12LKeo24XCzgz6ASSxcUa8BvUfzkEyCpGq
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>
    The Wau Holland Stiftung will use the money raised to pay for
    development work on GnuPG and Enigmail.
  </p>
  <p>
    In a blog post, Werner Koch has provided an overview of GnuPG's
    costs and revenues over the years:
  </p>
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      <a href="https://www.gnupg.org/blog/20141214-gnupg-and-g10.html"
	 >https://www.gnupg.org/blog/20141214-gnupg-and-g10.html</a>
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>
    Media contact:
  </p>
  <ul>
     <li>
       Werner Koch, primary GnuPG developer, g10<sup>code</sup>:<br/>
       Email: wk AT g10code DOT org<br/>
       Phone: +49-2104-173855
     </li>
     <li>
       Karsten Gerloff, President, Free Software Foundation Europe:<br/>
       Email: gerloff AT fsfe DOT org<br/>
       Phone: +49 176 9690 4298<br/>
     </li>
     <li>
       Bernd R. Fix, Wau Holland Stiftung:<br/>
       Email:<br/>
       Phone:<br/>
     </li>
  </ul>
</body>
<sidebar promo="about-fsfe">
</sidebar>
<tags>
  <tag>privacy</tag>
  <tag>encryption</tag>
  <tag>funding</tag>
</tags>
</html>
