<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2014-08-01">
	<head>
		<title>Your input wanted: How do we build a better future?</title>
	</head>
	<body class="press release">
        <h1>Your input wanted: How do we build a better future? [closed]</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Free Software has progressed in leaps and
bounds since we founded FSFE in 2001. But we still have a long way
to go until we can all be in control of our computing, our data,
and our digital lives.</p>

<p>This is why at FSFE, we are currently working to develop a
strategy to deliver software freedom to as many people as
possible. Please help us do this by sharing your views and
knowledge with us.
</p>

<p>We have compiled a survey where we invite you to tell us how
you view our work, and what issues you think FSFE should dedicate its
attention and resources to.</p>

<p>The survey also includes a few questions about yourself. While
these are optional - like all questions in the survey - we
encourage you to answer them. The information you provide will
give us a better idea of how we will have to adapt FSFE's work in
order to meet your needs and interests. 
</p>

<p>The survey is anonymous. If you want, you can also enter your
email address, we can contact you for further clarification if
needed. Any information you provide will only be used
for internal evaluation purposes. </p>

<p>The survey is open until August 11, 2014. We look forward to your input!</p>



<p>The survey is available <a href="https://vote.fsfe.org/index.php?sid=64934&amp;lang=en">here.</a></p>
	</body>

        <sidebar news="stakeholder,survey" promo="about-fsfe">
            <h3>Contact</h3>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="/press/">Press Room</a></li>

            </ul>
            <p>
            <a href="/news/">News Archive</a>
            </p>
        </sidebar>
	<tags>
		<tag>front-page</tag>
		<tag>survey</tag>
		<tag>stakeholder</tag>
		<tag>strategy-process</tag>
	</tags>
</html>
