<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-09-29">
	<head>
		<title>Munich's IT infrastructure</title>
	</head>
	<body class="press release">

<h1>Munich's IT infrastructure</h1>


<p newsteaser="yes">
	In light of recent events, the FSFE would like to address Munich's evaluation of its IT infrastructure. While details of the evaluation are yet to be disclosed[link to kleine Anfrage], there are a number of important aspects such as vendor independence, freedom, or exit costs, that are commonly ignored when doing such an investigation. Also, the FSFE would also like to emphasize that certain IT-related problems are platform-independent or simply due to the way public administration is structured. Therefore, it is the hope of the FSFE that Munich will approach its issues with these factors in mind. 
</p>

<p><strong>Why and how did Munich switch to GNU/Linux?</strong></p>
	
<p> In 2002, the city of Munich saw itself forced into a difficult situation: Microsoft decided to end its support of Windows NT, the operating system the city used at the time. Just as in the case of Windows XP only a few months ago [quote], this scenario forces users to act fast in order to avoid entering a state of severe vulnerability. With no support guarantee by the manufacturer, intruders and cybercriminals are free to abuse any known and yet-to-be-discovered security flaws. </p>

<p>
Munich had to make a choice. Would it continue to be dependent on the support deadlines set by Microsoft, or is there a better solution? In search of an answer, it began to evaluate its options by executing a comparative study of desktop operating systems based on their technical feasibility, cost/benefit ratio, as well as their qualitative/strategical consequences [quote]. Instead of moving its roughly 14,000 workstations to the next version of Microsoft's operating system, which at the time was Windows 2000 (support ended on July 13th, 2010 [quote]), the city decided to change its infrastructure to a GNU/Linux-based environment in the early spring of 2003 [quote]. </p>

<p>In official documents, the city cites the decreased vendor dependence, increased competition in the software market, and the creation of jobs in Munich's IT economy as reasons [http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/Muenchner-Stadtrat-segnet-Konzept-zur-Linux-Migration-ab-101177.html] for their decision to support the move to GNU/Linux. Under Mayor Christian Ude, a testphase of two years was initiated in 2004. It ended in September of 2006, which marks the day the real switch was initiated. According to different sources [quote], between 4 and 10 million Euros had been saved until 2012 [quote], although some dispute exists about the specific number [quote].
</p>


<p><strong>What are the criticisms known to date and what is their relation to the project?</strong></p>

<p>First mayor Dieter Reiter (SPD) and second mayor Josef Schmid (CSU) took office in March of 2014, and have publicly critizised the IT infrastructure at various occasions. The reporting began with an interview published the print magazine "Stadtbild", in which Munich's mayor Dieter Reiter (SPD) did not disagree with the statement he would be a "Microsoft-Fan", and claimed Free Software would in some cases be inferior to proprietary software (no source/date available - there should be a linux magazin article about this, else MK has the original version of the newspaper).

Munich's second mayor Josef Schmid (CSU) thereafter said in an interview that "a number of functions commonly found in proprietary software" would be absent in the case of Munich's GNU/Linux version without mentioning which ones he is referring to. He moreover criticized the need for more than one program to organise mails, contacts, and calendar, as well as the need to create an external mail server, and finally blamed Free Software for the waiting time of four weeks he had to overcome before receiving his smart phone http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/LiMux-Linux-in-Muenchen-unter-politischem-Beschuss-2260806.html. 

While the statements above have been sufficient for some media outlets to announce the end of GNU/Linux in the city of Munich, their content reveals very little to no relation to Free Software in the eyes of the FSFE. Schmid's criticism of the calendar/mail system fails ignores the previously mentioned groupware project "MigMak" that the city has awarded to Kolab Systems earlier this year http://www.pro-linux.de/news/1/20814/kolab-gewinnt-auschreibung-fuer-groupware-in-muenchen.html%29. It is due to be finished by the end of 2014, which renders an evaluation rather difficult at this point. Lastly, no clear connection exists between the bemoaned waiting time of four weeks Schmid had to face and the GNU/Linux based office environment of the city of Munich. The FSFE has requested and eagerly awaits further clarification from the side of Reiter and Schmid.
</p>

<p><strong>What happens next?</strong></p>
<p>
	In August, Reiter has announced that the city had assigned an "independent group of experts" to analyse the GNU/Linux system currently used [quote]. While exact details remain unclear, the goal of the study appears to be a general analysis of the city's IT infrastructure and its efficiency rather than a specific analysis of "Windows vs. GNU/LInux" [quote]. Despite the exact details, there are a number of issues with studies of this kind that have occured in the past. Usually the feasibility of a specific platform versus another is reduced to a question of cost and user satisfaction. Both of these variables can lead to false impressions when regarded solely in the short term, since in the long term, a number of benefits arise from its use:
     - reduced financial effort due to absence of (re-occuring) licensing costs
     - unique and individual IT solutions provided by local IT service providers
     - increased level of transparency due to openly available source code
     - ability to share both software and experience freely with similar institutions


[feel free to add more advantages here, they will be converted into full text later]

Moreover, there is a tendency to avoid mentioning the exit costs from any existing software solution when conducting feasibility studies. 

The green party has posed an official request for details [quote] that has been due for a response since the 25th of September, but thus far no answer has been published. As has been shown above, the issues known thus far are either within the margins of any large-scale IT project, in the process of being fixed, or not related to the IT infrastructure at all. Considering the just mentioned high number of long- and short-term advantages over proprietary alternatives, as well as the significant time and monetary effort that has been spent thus far, the FSFE considers it mandatory to conduct the study in a way that enables sensible and reasonable conclusions. The FSFE will await the answers to the questions posed by the green party before further comments. 
</p>

<p>
	<strong>Weitere Information zu Zwangsroutern:</strong>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="/activities/routers/routers.html">Was sind Zwangsrouter und warum sind diese ein Problem?</a></li>
		<li><a href="/activities/routers/timeline.html">Zeitliche Übersicht des Routerzwangs seit Januar 2013</a></li>
	</ul>
</p>

</body>

<sidebar news="routerzwang">
	<h2>Mehr über Routerzwang</h2>
	<ul>
		<li><a href="/activities/routers/">Ausführliche Informationen zum Routerzwang</a></li>
		<li><a href="/news/2014/news-20140328-01.html">Unser Kommentar zum vorherigen TKTransparenzV-Entwurf</a></li>
		<li><a href="/news/2014/files/Stellungnahme-TKTransparenzV-FSFE.pdf">Ausführliche Stellungnahme zum vorherigen Entwurf</a></li>
		<li><a href="/news/2013/news-20131104-02.de.html">"Routerzwang schadet Nutzern"</a></li>
		<li><a href="/news/2013/files/Stellungnahme_Schnittstellen_398_-_FSFE.pdf">Stellungnahme an die Bundesnetzagentur Herbst 2013</a></li>
		<li><a href="http://blog.mehl.mx/2014/why-free-choice-of-routers-is-an-unnegotiable-must/">Warum freie Routerwahl unverzichtbar ist (englisch)</a></li>
	</ul>
</sidebar>
	<tags>
		<!--<tag>front-page</tag>-->
		<tag>routers</tag>
		<tag>de</tag>
	</tags>
</html>
