<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Legal Issues in Free Software</title>

  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/freesoftware/freesoftware.html">About Free Software</a></p>
    
    <h1>Legal Issues in Free Software</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
        It is important when re-using and developing Free Software (also known as Open Source), to understand the legal issues surrounding them. Much of
        these legal issues are focused around Free Software licences,
        and the rights and obligations that they provide and impose.
        Having a basic understanding of these legal issues enable users
        to effectively use and comply with the requirements of Free
        Software licences.
      </p>
    </div>

    <p>
      You can follow <a href="/freesoftware/legal/faq.html">this link
      for more Frequently Asked Questions</a> that can help you
      understand the legal implications of Free Software licensing.
    </p>

    <h2>What is software licensing?</h2>

    <p>
      Generally, a licence is an authorization to use, release, or
      distribute someone else's property. This includes intellectual
      property such as a piece of text, a song, or artwork. Software
      licences are therefore licences that inform users of how the
      rights holder over a piece of software (usually the author) wants
      that software to be used and what freedoms and/or restrictions
      it has. Without a licence, many uses of the software may be
      prohibited due to the default application of copyright law.
    </p>

    <p>
      A Free Software licence is a software licence whose terms allow
      a user to obtain and enjoy the <a href="/freesoftware/freesoftware.html">four freedoms of Free
      Software</a>; namely, the freedom to use, modify, share, and
      improve software. Conversely, the opposite of a Free Software
      licence is a proprietary software licence, which restricts users
      from enjoying any of the four freedoms of Free Software. Even
      software that is distributed free of charge (gratis) can be
      considered to be proprietary software, as long as any of the four
      freedoms are restricted.
    </p>

    <p>
      Copyleft licences are a type of Free Software licences that allow
      the user to enjoy the four freedoms, under the condition that
      those freedoms remain intact in any further distribution of the
      software or derivative works.
    </p>

    <p>
      The absence of a licence does not make software Free Software.
      Software is copyrighted by default, so unless it has been
      explicitly and validly placed into the <a href="/freesoftware/legal/faq.html#public-domain">public
      domain</a>, using code without a licence may be considered
      copyright infringement.
    </p>

    <h2>Why should software projects use Free Software licences?</h2>

    <p>
      Software is the most important cultural technology of the 21st
      century. It is almost impossible to imagine daily life today
      without it. When others control a tool as important to society as
      software, they can exert great influence over our lives and
      actions.
    </p>

    <p>
      For example, whoever controls the search engines that we use has
      the power to determine what we find online; whoever controls the
      software on which our online transactions are run can have access
      to our personal data. It would be dangerous to democracy if the
      critical social instrument that software constitutes were
      controlled by only a small group.
    </p>

    <p>
      The four freedoms of Free Software can therefore be applied to
      hand control of the future of software back to the people. A Free
      Software licence is an explicit way of granting these freedoms,
      so that users of a piece of such licensed software are able to
      use, study, share, and improve the tools that it provides.
    </p>

    </body>

</html>
