<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

	<head>
		<title>FSFE - Education - TUX&amp;GNU@school column</title>
	</head>

	<body>

			<div align="center">
				<h2>The TUX&amp;GNU@school column</h2>
			</div>

			<h3>General</h3>

			<p> 
				The TUX&amp;GNU@school column informs about a piece of free
				educational software, a web site on the topic and an idea for a
				useful and sound program which serves educational purposes.
		  </p>

			<h3>Editions</h3>

			<p> 
				Current edition is
				<a href="./tagatschool8.en.html">Number 8</a> from 2004/11/01.
			</p>
			<p>
			The column can be ordered as a two monthly <a href="https://lists.fsfe.org/mailman/listinfo/tgs-en">newsletter</a> as well.
			</p>
			<!--
			<p>
				Next editions:
			</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					Number 9 at the 1st of January 2005
				</li>
				<li>
					Number 10 at the 1st of March 2005
				</li>
				<li>
					Number 11 at the 1st of May 2005
				</li>
			</ul>
			-->
			<p>
				Old editions:
			</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool1.en.html">Number 1</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool2.en.html">Number 2</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool3.en.html">Number 3</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool4.en.html">Number 4</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool5.en.html">Number 5</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool6.en.html">Number 6</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="./tagatschool7.en.html">Number 7</a>
				</li>
			</ul>

			<h3>Contact &amp; Participate</h3>

			<p>
				Autor and editor in chief is <a href="mailto:foxman@lugo.ch">Mario Fux</a>.<br/>
				The editorship currently consists of <a href="mailto:christian.selig@bnv-bamberg.de">Christian Selig</a> and <a href="mailto:afterimage@gmx.net">Kristian Rink</a>.<br/>
				<a href="mailto:annemahfouf@hotmail.com">Anne-Marie Mahfouf</a> translates
				the column into French.<br/>
				<a href="mailto:bengt.skyllkvist@bsdkonsult.com">Bengt Skyllkvist</a> translates
				the column into Swedish.<br/>
				<a href="mailto:samuelgimeno@yahoo.es">Samuel Gimeno Artigas</a> translates the column into Spanish.<br/>
				The team can be reached via <a href="mailto:edu-team@lists.fsfe.org">its mailing list address</a>. Questions, criticism, comments and hints are always welcome.
			</p>
			<p>
				Generally anyone can participate who can proofread or translate and is
				accustomed to common GNU policies. We'd especially appreciate translators
				for all European languages.<br/>
				He or she who always wanted to do something for Free Software, but
				who is neither a programmer nor an artist nor a hacker, can make a
				contribution through his or her work on the TUX&amp;GNU@school column!
				<br/>
				Just <a href="mailto:edu-team@lists.fsfe.org">contact us</a>.
			</p>

	</body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
