<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>2012 FSFE Annual Report</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Challenges for 2013 and beyond</h1>

<p>Gaining broad acceptance for Free Software was only the start. For
2013, we all face some important challenges:</p>
<ul>
<li>Software patents: After the EU has reached a compromise on the
unitary patent, there is a risk that software patents will
increasingly be asserted against European companies. FSFE will monitor
the unitary patent system as it develops and speak up for the
interests of those working with Free Software.</li>
 
<li>Lockdown:The flood of innovation based on the PC and the Internet
was made possible by general-purpose computers and neutral
networks. Today, device makers and network operators increasingly
strangle innovation by artificially restricting devices and
networks. FSFE builds awareness for the importance of general purpose
computing, and enables people to take innovation into their own hands
again.</li>
<li>Public procurement:The public sector stands to benefit hugely from
Free Software, but outdated procurement practices stand in the
way. Working with public bodies, companies and regulators, FSFE
explains how procurement practices must change, creating opportunities
for Free Software companies along the way.</li>
<li>Brand abuse:* For many buyers of software and services Free Software
(or "open source") has come to stand for great software and great
value. Some companies are mislabeling their software to take
advantage, promising the user freedoms that they do not deliver. FSFE
will help users make informed choices to preserve their freedom.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Next:Support FSFE</h2>

</body>
    </html>
