<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
<version>1</version>

<head>
  <title>YH4F Frequently Asked Questions</title>
</head>

<body class="yh4f">
  <p id="category"><a href="/activities/yh4f/index.html">Youth Hacking 4 Freedom</a></p>

  <h1>Frequently Asked Questions</h1>

  <div id="introduction">
  <p>
	  If you have any questions on the Youth Hacking 4 Freedom you can 
	  always reach us with an email to contact [at] fsfe [dot] org. We 
	  will be happy to hear from you! However, We have already answered 
	  some questions below that might be helpful.
  </p>
  </div>

<h2 id="when-and-where-does-yh4f-take-place-">When and where does YH4F take place?</h2>

  <p><strong>Step 1.</strong> Registration</p>
  <p>
	  If you are interested to participate, please make sure to <a 
	  href="/activities/yh4f/">register until Sunday, 31 October 
	  2021</a>. Our online Opening Day takes place on Saturday, 9 
	  October 2021.
  </p>
  <p><strong>Step 2.</strong> Coding phase</p>
  <p>
	  From Monday 1 November 2021 to Thursday 31 March 2022, the 
	  participants have five months to come up with an idea for their 
	  Free Software program and write it.
  </p>
  <p><strong>Step 3.</strong> Evaluation</p>
  <p>
	  In April, the jury members evaluate the submitted programs. 
	  Afterwards, the winners are announced and invited to 
	  Brussels.
  </p>
  <p><strong>Step 4.</strong> Award Ceremony</p>
  <p>
	  In June 2022, the winners receive their awards in Brussels and 
	  join social activities.
  </p>

  <p>
	  The competition welcomes participants from all over Europe, 
	  therefore it takes place remotely. The award ceremony for the 
	  winners takes place in Brussels/Belgium.
  </p>

<h2 id="1-registration">1. Registration</h2>

<h3 id="i-do-not-have-an-idea-for-a-software-project-yet-can-i-register-">I do not have an idea for a software project yet. Can I register?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, only personal information is required for the registration. 
	  You can start organising your project after the start of the 
	  coding phase.
  </p>

<h3 id="i-am-a-beginner-in-programming-should-i-participate-">I am a beginner in programming. Should I participate?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, we would like to encourage you to participate despite being 
	  a beginner. Aim to have a program at the end of the coding phase 
	  that is simple and completed. Creating a simple program at your 
	  age is a major achievement. Everyone who submits a complete 
	  program gets a participation certificate.
  </p>

<h3 id="isn-t-hacking-illegal-">Isn’t hacking illegal?</h3>
 <p>
	 Hacking is a word that is often misunderstood. It is not about 
	 breaking illegally into systems of other people. Instead, hacking 
	 means that you think around the corner and make things with 
	 computers that are innovative, meaningful, interesting or just 
	 fun. It is about taking control over your technology and use it 
	 freely for your ideas.
  </p>

<h3 id="will-i-fit-in-">Will I fit in?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, we are welcoming everyone in Youth Hacking 4 Freedom. 
	  Technology has to be inclusive so that it addresses all peoples’ 
	  needs. The competition is open to people from 40 countries, and 
	  welcomes people of all cultural backgrounds, all genders, and 
	  people with different abilities and disabilities. If you have 
	  special needs regarding our communication or the trip, we will 
	  make sure to overcome them, just let us know within the first two 
	  months after the opening day. Your interest in technology is all 
	  that is needed for you to fit it perfectly.
  </p>

<h3 id="should-i-come-to-the-opening-day-">Should I come to the Opening Day?</h3>
  <p>
	  During the Opening Day of Youth Hacking 4 Freedom we will go 
	  through basic information that you need to know about the 
	  competition: What is Free Software? What will happen the next 
	  months in the competition? If there is something about this 
	  competition that is unclear to you, you can ask us. We will 
	  answer all your questions during the Opening Day. Also, it is a 
	  nice opportunity to welcome everyone on board. If you are not 
	  sure if you want to compete, you can still register to join the 
	  Opening Day to learn more and make up your mind. It is not 
	  possible to join the Opening Day without registering the 
	  competition, but there is no problem if you register and then let 
	  us know whether you would like to proceed.
	</p>

<h2 id="2-coding-phase">2. Coding phase</h2>

<h3 id="what-happens-during-the-coding-phase-">What happens during the coding phase?</h3>
  <p>
	  From the 1st of November, it is time to start developing your 
	  program. During the coding period you will be invited to an 
	  online group meeting. There you will have the chance to present 
	  what you have done so far, what you want to do next, and what you 
	  find difficult. Likewise, you will briefly follow what the other 
	  participants are working on. This is a good time for everyone who 
	  participates in the competition to share ideas and advice that 
	  might help others.
	</p>

<h3 id="what-type-of-software-should-i-make-">What type of software should I make?</h3>
  <p>
	  Think of a simple program that you wish it existed but you have 
	  not found it. Its aim can be artistic, or it can be practical. It 
	  can address an everyday problem you have, or it can be just fun. 
	  Everything is welcome and we look forward to seeing your ideas. 
	  Of course, it should be <a 
	  href="/freesoftware/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>, so that 
	  others can use, study, share, and improve the code in the 
	  future.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-my-program-make-use-of-hardware-">Can my program make use of hardware?</h3>
  <p>
	  Yes, it is fine if your program involves hardware, but it is 
	  important that we and the jury members are in a position to see 
	  how your program works without accessing the hardware. We should 
	  be able to run your program on standard Free Software operating 
	  systems. If there is hardware involved, please keep in mind that 
	  the jury members cannot access it. Please document the software 
	  project in a way that the jury members can fully see the result 
	  and evaluate it.  Share your code and consider additional ways of 
	  showing how your program works, such as a video. Please upload 
	  all the necessary files to your repository.
  </p>

<h3 id="where-can-i-host-my-repository-">Where can I host my repository?</h3>
  <p>
	  You are free to use a solution that is the most convenient to 
	  you. We would not like to limit your options and require a 
	  certain hosting, as we are in favour of decentralisation. But if 
	  you are unsure, we can recommend using <a 
	  href="https://edugit.org/Teckids/verein">Teckids git 
	  repository</a>. Techkids is  set up for your age group, abiding 
	  by legal obligations that often other repository providers do not 
	  consider.
  </p>

<h3 id="how-much-time-should-i-invest-">How much time should I invest?</h3>

  <p>
	  It is up to you to choose how much time you want to invest in 
	  your project. You do not have to spend all the coding phase to 
	  your project. We know you are busy with school and possibly other 
	  activities too. You can be flexible with your schedule and plan 
	  it as you wish. We are glad to offer you plenty of time so that 
	  you can expand your program as much as possible and learn by 
	  doing.
  </p>

<h3 id="i-run-into-a-problem-in-programming-can-i-ask-the-fsfe-for-help-">I run into a problem in programming. Can I ask the FSFE for help?</h3>

  <p>
	  If you run into problems in project, we would encourage you to 
	  seek for help from a person you trust, or from an online tech 
	  community. There are plenty of coding meetups where you can get 
	  specific advice online, and learn by following the work of 
	  others. We cannot provide solutions or hints, but you are welcome 
	  to get advice from people who can help you.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-i-collaborate-with-others-">Can I collaborate with others?</h3>
  <p>
	  Collaboration is an intrinsic value of Free Software. You can 
	  exchange ideas and collaborate with others, and at the same time 
	  you should have a clear understanding of the program you 
	  submit.
  </p>

<h2 id="3-evaluation">3. Evaluation</h2>

<h3 id="how-will-i-present-my-idea-">How will I present my idea?</h3>
  <p>
	  You will send the program to us and the <a 
	  href="/activities/yh4f/evaluation.html">jury members</a> will 
	  evaluate your project. Then, you will be invited to present the 
	  software yourself to the jury members, and share a few words 
	  about yourself. How did you come up with your idea? It would be 
	  good if you explain the program step by step and show to a jury 
	  member what it does. Then, one member of the jury will ask you 
	  some practical questions. For example: ‘Why did you use this path 
	  instead of another?’ That is because we would like to understand 
	  your thinking and how you came up with your solution. There is 
	  not necessarily one right or wrong answer here. Feel free to 
	  share which problems you faced and how you overcame them. The 
	  jury members will take into account the age of the participants 
	  too.
  </p>

<h2 id="4-award-ceremony">4. Award Ceremony</h2>

<h3 id="who-is-joining-the-award-ceremony-">Who is joining the Award Ceremony?</h3>
  <p>
	  The Youth Hacking 4 Freedom will invite six winners of the 
	  competition to Brussels. If you won the competition and you are 
	  under 18 we would like to invite a parent of yours, so that you 
	  will not  travel alone. We will cover the travel and 
	  accommodation costs for you and one of your parents. In Brussels, 
	  you will meet other winners and members of the FSFE team.
  </p>

<h3 id="can-i-come-to-the-award-ceremony-if-i-have-not-won-the-competition-">Can I come to the Award Ceremony if I have not won the competition?</h3>
  <p>
	  If you have submitted a complete project but did not win the 
	  competition you are welcome to join the award ceremony if you 
	  decide to do so. Just let us know in advance. We will be glad to 
	  meet you.
  </p>

<h3 id="what-am-i-going-to-do-in-brussels-">What am I going to do in Brussels?</h3>
  <p>
	  You will spend two days in Brussels, staying in a nice hotel. The 
	  FSFE staff will help you get to the venue where the Award 
	  Ceremony takes place. The event will have top speakers in the 
	  field of Free Software and it will be a time of celebration. You 
	  made it! Your hard work paid off and you will receive your award. 
	  If you are not camera-shy, we will take pictures too. We will go 
	  to lunch together – winners, FSFE staff members, guest speakers – 
	  and get to know each other. We will have an educative tour in 
	  Brussels, visit the EU Parliament, and enjoy the best spots of 
	  this beautiful city. And most importantly: spent time with other 
	  like minded Free Software hackers.
  </p>

  <p><strong>
	  For any other question on the Youth Hacking 4 Freedom competition 
	  please send us an email to: contact [at] fsfe [dot] org. Or, join 
	  our Opening Day and ask us directly. We are here to help 
	  you!</strong>
  </p>


</body>

</html>
