<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Service Offering Details</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Service Offering - Details</h1>

    <h2 id="Dinner">Annual Kickoff­ and Retrospective FSFE Networking Dinners</h2>

    <p>
      The annual FSFE networking dinners takes place in a European capital city
      and bring together key supporters and representatives from industry,
      education, politics and the legal community to network and exchange
      information, ideas, and experiences.
    </p>

   <dl>
    <dt>Kickoff Dinner</dt>
    <dd>
      The kickoff dinner takes place in the first
      months of each year and a different aspect of
      Free Software is always chosen as a theme.
      The event traditionally includes an
      introductory address by FSFE's president,
      which highlights the key issues surrounding
      the selected topic from FSFE's perspective.
    </dd>

    <dt>Retrospective Dinner</dt>
    <dd>
      At the retrospective dinner, held towards the
      end of each year, FSFE's president will
      summarize the key global issues and
      happenings of the previous year in Free
      Software and give an overview about the
      expected topics for the upcoming year.
    </dd>
    <dd>
      During both dinners, participants are given
      the opportunity to ask questions and discuss
      items of specific interest to them.
    </dd>

    <dt>Price</dt>
    <dd>
      Participants to the dinners need to register in
      advance. The admission price is 800 EUR
      per event and includes the dinner and drinks.
      Participants need to provide their own
      accommodation and transportation.
    </dd>
    </dl>

    <h2 id="Hotline">Free Software Hotline</h2>

    <p>
      FSFE brings together and maintains a large network of experts on all
      different aspects of Free Software. Through its Hotline service, FSFE
      enables subscribers to access the core team of FSFE and ask questions,
      which will either be answered immediately through FSFE staff or are
      forwarded to an appropriate member of our network.
    </p>

    <dl>
    <dt>Priority</dt>
    <dd>
      FSFE will stay on top of the issue and make
      sure that the subscriber receives an answer
      within a short period of time. All questions
      will be treated with utmost confidentiality and
      cannot be traced back to its originator.
    </dd>

    <dt>Legal</dt>
    <dd>
      FSFE reserves the right to defer or reject
      certain questions if no suitable expert can be
      found within our network.
    </dd>
    <dd>
      FSFE cannot provide legal advice and thus any
      information provided is purely
      informational and companies should seek
      advice from a certified legal practitioner for
      specific legal questions.
    </dd>
    <dt>Price</dt>
    <dd>
      Access to the Free Software Hotline is based
      on a subscription model and costs 1000 EUR
      per year for email­only access, which
      includes up to 10 individual tickets raised by
      the subscriber. The service is provided on a
      best­effort level with usual turnaround times
      of less then 48 hours during normal business
      hours.
    </dd>
    <dd>
      A special version of the Free Software
      Hotline allows for phone access to FSFE's
      senior staff and will be charged on a per­
      incident basis at 500 EUR per call.
    </dd>
    </dl>

    <h2 id="Call">Bi­Monthly Update Call</h2>

    <p>
      The bi­monthly update call is the ideal service for people who want to
      stay on top of the Free Software community and market but don't have the
      time to read through all the different websites and other sources of
      information.
    </p>
    <p>
      Concise and to the point, FSFE's president or another member of the
      senior staff will highlight the major issues and happenings in Free
      Software and also address questions from the subscribers.
    </p>

    <dl>
    <dt>Schedule</dt>
    <dd>
      The calls are scheduled on the last Friday of
      January, March, May, July, September, and
      November at or around the end of the
      business day in Europe. Attendees who
      cannot make the call can download a
      recorded version of the call to listen to at
      their convenience. Questions can also be
      submitted in advance of the call.
    </dd>
    <dd>
      Each call takes up to two hours. The actual
      call schedule is prepared and communicated
      at the beginning of each year.
    </dd>

    <dt>Price</dt>
    <dd>
      Participation in this call is based on a
      subscription basis and will be charged at
      1200 EUR per six conference calls.
    </dd>
    </dl>

    <h2 id="Workshop">Personalized Workshop</h2>

    <p>
      Senior FSFE staff will provide a personalized, one­day speech or workshop
      at a customer's premise or event. Topics of such workshops can range from
      'How to create a Free Software policy for an organization' to general
      introductions to Free Software or even political, economical, or
      technical topics.
    </p>

    <dl>
    <dt>Topics</dt>
    <dd>
      The topic of the workshop will be agreed
      upon between the customer and FSFE at the
      time of booking.
    </dd>
    <dd>
      Workshops may include handouts and
      hands­on training, depending on the subject
      matter chosen.
    </dd>
    <dd>
      FSFE cannot provide legal advice and thus
      any information provided in such workshops
      is purely informational and companies should
      seek advice from a certified legal practitioner
      for specific legal questions.
    </dd>

    <dt>Price</dt>
    <dd>
      The cost of a one­day workshop is 2500 EUR
      plus any travel and out­of­pocket expenses
      incurred.
    </dd>
    </dl>

    <h2 id="Summary">Annual Summary of key issues in Free Software</h2>

    <p>
      FSFE publishes several newsletters during the year and also maintains and
      monitors a multitude of different Internet forums, conferences, chat
      rooms and mailing lists.Once every year (usually towards the end of the
      year), senior FSFE staff meet for a two day workshop to compile the most
      interesting and important issues discussed and moved forward during the
      previous year.
    </p>
    <p>
      The result of this discussion is a multi­faceted summary of all key
      issues seen in Free Software in the previous year throughout the world.
    </p>

    <dl>
    <dt>Access</dt>
    <dd>
      This summary is made available to the public
      on a subscription only basis and delivered in
      an electronic format (PDF).
    </dd>

    <dt>Price</dt>
    <dd>
      The annual subscription cost is 800 EUR.
    </dd>
    </dl>

<h3>Disclaimer</h3>
    <p>
      The services described here are basic services provided through the Free
      Software Foundation e.V. (FSFE) to its corporate partners. FSFE reserves
      the right to change or amend those products as it sees fit and change or
      discontinue them at any time. 
    </p>
    <p>
      All quoted prices are excluding VAT. VAT may vary depending on country
      and location of the customer.
    </p>
    <p>
      Please download also the <a href="FSFE-Service-Offering.pdf">print version</a>.
    </p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
