<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Policy overview - FSFE</title>
  </head>

<body>
	<p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our work</a></p>
    <h1>Policy overview - FSFE</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
		<p>
			Free Software - computer programs which anyone can use, study, share, and improve - is crucial for building a free information society. Free Software powers the Internet and provides the foundation for most successful businesses in the information technology industry. Only with Free Software can users fully understand what a computer program actually does, which data it sends where, and how it generates its results. Only with Free Software we can build a society where principles such as privacy, transparency and freedom of speech are respected. That is why FSFE fights to promote Free Software at the political level.
		</p>
    </div>
    
    <h2>Our Demands</h2>
    <p>FSFE works with policy makers and public bodies in Europe to enhance the rights of Free Software users and developers and to abolish barriers to Free Software. To be efficient, we defined precise policy goals on which we are going to focus until 2019:</p>
    
    <h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<h3 class="center">
				<a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/public-bodies.html">Public bodies</a>
				</h3>
			</li>
			<li>
				<h3 class="center">
				<a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/distributed-systems.html">Distributed systems</a>
				</h3>
			</li>
			<li>
				<h3 class="center">
				<a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/consumer-rights.html">Consumer rights and device sovereignty</a>
				</h3>
			</li>
			<li>
				<h3 class="center">
				<a href="/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/privacy.html">Privacy, surveillance and cryptography</a>
				</h3>
			</li>
		</ul>
		
		<h2>Our Actions</h2>

    <div class="grid-50-50">
    
		<div class="box first">
			
			<h3>Some thematics...</h3>
			
			<h4>Procurement</h4>
			<p>Free Software is a perfect fit for the public sector. It brings efficiency to government, transparency to citizens, and competition to business. FSFE works with public bodies throughout Europe to improve public IT procurement and open up opportunities for Free Software. </p>
			
			<h4>Open Standards</h4>
			<p>Open Standards allow people to share all kinds of data freely and with perfect fidelity. They prevent lock-in and other artificial barriers to interoperability, and promote choice between vendors and technology solutions. FSFE's work on Open Standards has the goal of making sure that people find it easy to migrate to Free Software or between Free Software solutions. </p>
			
			<h4>Software Patents</h4>
			<p>Software patents are a menace to society and economy. They restrict innovation, damage businesses and put collaborative creativity in great danger. FSFE fights to keep Europe free of software patents, and works at the UN level to abolish software patents around the world. </p>


		</div>
      
		<div class="box">
    
			<h3>...for many activities</h3>

			<ul>
				<li><strong>European Commission's Open Source Strategy</strong></li>
				<p>In 2014, the European Commission asked for proposals to help it to define its new Open Source Strategy. FSFE provided an input and welcomed cautiously the final result.</p>
				
				<li><strong>Horizon 2020</strong></li>
				<p>In 2011, FSFE participated in a European Commission's public consultation aiming to define the 2014-2020 European funding program for research in Europe. We asked for promoting research on and about Free Software and making mandatory the release of Software result as Free Software.</p> 
				
				<li><strong>European Commission vs Microsoft: Interoperability Case</strong></li>
				<p>Between 2001 and 2012 the FSFE took part as a third-party in the European Commission's investigations towards Microsoft. The company was suspected of abuse of dominant position in relation with interoperability.</p>
				
			</ul>

		</div>
      
    </div>

</body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
