<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>
      Software patents detrimental to European power supply business - December 6th, 2004
    </title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/activities/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/activities/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | <a 
              href="/activities/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | <a
              href="/activities/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
      </center>

      <br />

      <center> Open Letter 
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20041004.html">2004-10-04</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20041101.html">2004-11-01</a>]
                      [2004-12-06]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20050103.html">2005-01-03</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20050207.html">2005-02-07</a>]
                      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20050307.html">2005-03-07</a>]
		      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20050405.html">2005-04-05</a>]
		      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20050502.html">2005-05-02</a>]
		      [<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20050606.html">2005-06-06</a>]
      </center>



    <h2>
       Software patents detrimental to European power supply business
    </h2>
    <p>Open Letter to the President of the European electricity industry Hans Haider</p>
  
    <h3>December 6th, 2004</h3>
  
    <p>Dear Mr Haider,</p>

    <p>the European Union is on the way to introduce a legal basis for
      <a href="/activities/swpat/swpat.html">software patents</a>
      in Europe. While you may consider this a topic
      outside your daily business, it is likely to become the cause of
      serious security problems to European power supplies.</p>

    <p>The dependence of reliable power supplies on reliable software has
      steadily increased over the years and ever since the US-East Coast
      blackout of 2003 it has become a topic of public interest. Huge
      problems are often caused by small mistakes and thanks to networking
      effects, they can spread like wildfire, affecting huge areas.</p>
    
    <p>One of the ideas to counter such developments was recently 
      <a href="http://scitation.aip.org/getabs/servlet/GetabsServlet?prog=normal&amp;id=PRLTAO000093000009098701000001&amp;idtype=cvips&amp;gifs=Yes">
        proposed</a> by Adilson Enio Motter, guest scientist at the 
      <a href="http://www.mpipks-dresden.mpg.de/">Max Planck</a> Institute for
      Complex Systems Physics: His proposal is to stop the problem spreading by
      selective shutdown of a few critical crosspoints.</p>
    
    <p>If the software patent directive is adopted in its current form, it
      would be possible to apply for a software patent on the so-called
      "control of cascade" -- regardless of whether the patentee has
      implemented a solution to the idea or not. Anyone who has a solution
      to implement this idea needs the permission of the patent holder,
      which the patent holder is able to give or refuse.</p>
    
    <p>There will be many other examples for ideas that fundamentally affect
      the security of software systems controlling the European power supply
      and software in general -- as the methods to make computer systems
      secure are limited. It is impossible to avoid software patents
      completely as computer programs contain thousands of ideas, all of
      which should be patentable according to the directive, you will most
      likely only learn of the particular patents once your solutions have
      entered the production environment and your legal department receives
      the bill.</p>
    
    <p>Not only does this contradict the draft directive on the security of our
      electricity supplies, which was passed by the European Council on 
      <a href="http://www.euractiv.com/Article?tcmuri=tcm:29-131147-16&amp;type=LinksDossier">
        Monday 22nd of November 2004</a>, it would make each of the European
      power supply companies vulnerable to legal attacks by specialised
      software patent companies and law-firms seeking to maximise their
      revenue.  This seems detrimental to Europe as a region and to the
      European power supply business, which is why we would like to ask for
      your support in our struggle against software patents in Europe. Please
      do not hesitate to contact us should you need further information.</p>
    
     <p>With kind regards,</p>

    <p>
        <a href="/about/people/greve/index.html">Georg Greve</a><br />
        President<br />
        Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
        <a href="/">fsfe.org</a>
    </p>
    

  </body>
  
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
