<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Defuse the Novell time bomb</title>
  </head>
  <body>
  
  
    <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Work</a> / <a href="/activities/swpat/swpat.html">Software patents</a></p>
  <h1>Defuse the Novell time bomb</h1>
  
  <h2>Defending Free Software against harm from sale of Novell patents</h2>
  
  <p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20101222.html">FSFE's statement from December 22, 2010</a></li>
      <li><a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20110406.html">FSFE's response to German FCO from April 6</a></li>
    </ul>
  </p>
  
  <p>On November 22, 2010, Novell agreed to be bought by Attachmate. While
  this move wasn’t particularly controversial in itself, a detail raised
  eyebrows. At the same time, Novell announced that it was selling 882
  of its patents to a consortium made up of Microsoft, Oracle, Apple and
  EMC.</p>
  
  <p>This is worrying. Given that Novell has been involved in Unix and Free
  Software development for a long time, it’s likely that a number of the
  company’s patents cover important Free Software technologies. In many
  markets such as operating systems, desktop productivity, or web
  servers, virtualisation and identity management, Free Software
  programs are the key competitors to those offered by the CPTN
  consortium members.</p>

  <p>Allowing a consortium of Microsoft, Oracle, Apple and EMC to acquire
  patents that are likely to read on key Free Software technologies
  would do huge damage to competition in the software market. This is
  yet another reason to continue FSFE’s ongoing work against software
  patents.</p>
  
  <p>
  CPTN filed for permission in Germany and the United States to form a
  joint venture in order to acquire Novell's patents. As a European
  organisation, FSFE has been working with the German Federal
  Competition Office (FCO) in order to try and minimise the risks to
  Free Software from this transaction.</p>
  
  
  <h2>December 22, 2010: FSFE expresses its concerns to the German competition office</h2>
  
  <p>
  On December 22, 2010, FSFE submitted a <a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20101222.html">document</a>
  (<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20101222-Bundeskartellamt-Novell-Attachmate-CPTN.pdf">pdf version</a> in German) detailing our concerns regarding CPTN's role
  and the intentions of the participating companies to the FCO.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  Microsoft has used patent lawsuits to stifle competition from Free
  Software (e.g. TomTom), and has long used unsubstantiated patent
  claims for a continued campaign of fear, uncertainty and doubt against
  Free Software. Oracle also has used its patents aggressively against
  Google.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  CPTN might also decide to sell the patents on to third parties. These
  could be patent trolls (“non-practicing entities”), or members of the
  consortium itself. In September 2009, Microsoft sold 22 patents
  related to GNU/Linux during an auction where only non-practicing
  entities were invited.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  All these cases would be bad for competition in the software
  market. Microsoft in particular would be holding a stash of patents
  that everybody believes to relate to Free Software. At the very least,
  this would make their FUD campaign much more powerful. The company
  could also move into patent litigation much more aggressively, suing
  competitors out of the market. (Both the legal costs and the potential
  damages in a patent lawsuit are so large that they represent a serious
  threat to any company that’s not really, really large.) Or CPTN sell
  the patents to a patent troll and let that organisation do all the
  dirty work.
  </p>
  
  <p>
  As a consequence, if the sale of Novell’s patents to CPTN is allowed
  to go ahead, this will significantly increase the legal threat level
  for Free Software.
  </p>
  
  
  <h2>April 6, 2011: FSFE responds to FCO's questionnaire to market participants</h2>
  
  <p>
  At the end of March 2011, the German FCO sent FSFE a "questionnaire to
  market participants". This contained a slight modification of the
  deal. While the FCO has asked us not to publish the questionnaire
  itself, we can provide a summary: 
  
  <ul>
  <li>each of the four CPTN investors will receive 25% of Novell's patents</li>
  <li>all investors and Novell (along with its affiliated companies) will
     get licenses to Novell's entire patent portfolio</li>
  <li>CPTN will be dissolved after the transaction is complete,
     i.e. within three months.</li>
  </ul>
  </p>
  
  <p>
  So CPTN is merely a vehicle to acquire the patents and distribute them
  between the investors. 
  </p>
  
  <p>
  It seems that the US Department of Justice and the German FCO between
  December and March signalled to the CPTN investors that there would
  need to be some changes in order for the deal to move ahead. The March
  2011 questionnaire mentions the following modifications to the deal:
  
  <ul>
  <li>Microsoft will sell its share of the Novell patents directly on to
     Attachmate. It will receive a license to those patents from
     Attachmate.</li>
  <li>EMC will not acquire 31 patents that relate to virtualisation.</li>
  </ul>
  </p>
  
  <p>
  In our <a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20110406.html">reply</a>
  <!--(<a href="/activities/swpat/letter-20110406-Bundeskartellamt-Novell-Attachmate-CPTN.en.pdf">pdf version</a>)-->,
  we make clear that this
  modification does not allay our concerns that Novell's patents may be
  used to limit competition. There are several reasons to be
  suspicious, notably:
  <ul>
  <li>access to more patents will increase the respective dominant
     positions of the CPTN investors.</li>
  <li>What will Attachmate do with those patents? The company does not
     have an established track record in Free Software, and there is
     nothing to keep Attachmate from either selling the patents on to a
     third party, or trying to turn litigation into a revenue
     driver. Could Attachmate become a second SCO?</li>
  <li>Any financial relationship between Attachmate and Microsoft needs
     to be clarified.</li>
  </ul>
  </p>
  
  <p>
  As a remedy, we propose that the Novell patents which CPTN is seeking
  to acquire should be made available under conditions that allow
  implementation in Free Software, including under the GPL. This would
  be a royalty-free, perpetual license. Their owners could still enforce
  the patents against proprietary implementations. But there would be
  no further danger that they would be used to limit competition from
  Free Software. 
  </p>
  
  
  </body>


</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
