<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/activities/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/activities/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | Status | <a 
              href="/activities/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a>]
      </center>

    <h2>Current Status</h2>

    <p>The European Commission's original proposal for the directive was
        heavily criticised for allowing unlimited patenting of software,
        calcuation rules and business processes, while making the claim of not
        doing so.</p>

    <p class="indent"><b>September 24, 2003:</b> The European Parliament, the
        only body in the European Union that is elected directly by its
        citizens, had to decide on the commission's proposal. Giving the needs
        of European citizens and industry preference, the Parliament passed the
        directive after limiting the scope of patentability to exclude pure,
        abstract software without a technical context.<br />
        This decision was regarded a victory for democracy and a
        step towards a more transparent and participatory European Union by
        many.</p>

     <p class="indent"><b>May 18, 2004:</b> The council of the European Union,
         a body representing the Ministers of its member states, rejected the
         parliament's version. Instead it agreed upon a new proposal of the
         commission that was in effect identical to the original proposal, in
         some respects even worse. Formal adoption of that proposal was
         delayed, however.</p>

     <p class="indent"><b>December 21, 2004:</b> The directive was put on the
         agenda of the EU Council on Agriculture and Fishery to be approved as
         a so-called "A-item" without further discussion.<br />
         Paying an unexpected visit, Poland's Vice Minister of
         Science, Wodzimierz Marcinski, vetoed this item at the beginning of
         the meeting, so it was taken off the agenda. Poland received much
         well-deserved applause for this act in defense of democracy and
         prevented serious harm to European economy.</p>

     <p class="indent"><b>March 7th, 2005:</b> Was a black day for
         European democracy, citizens and economy. With remarkable
         disregard for democracy, the EU Presidency forced the
         software patent directive on the agenda as an A-item. This
         was done against the explicit will of several countries
         present at the meeting and ignoring the European Parliament
         as well as several national parliaments. The officially
         stated reason were "formal procedural rules."</p>

     <p class="indent"><b>July 6th, 2005:</b> With an overwhelming majority of
         648 of 680 votes, the European Parliament rejected the entire
         software patent directive: sending a strong message against
         software patents in Europe and a sign of protest against
         corruption of democratic processes. Now it will be important
         to establish democratic control of the European Patent Office (EPO) --
         more information also available in the <a
         href="https://lists.fsfe.org/pipermail/press-release/2005q3/000109.html">FSFE
         press release</a>.</p>


  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
