<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-11-18">
<head>
	<title>Freedom Food: FSFE to cook for its donors</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Freedom Food: FSFE to cook for its donors</h1>
 
<p newsteaser="yes">For this year's round of fund-raising, the Free Software
	Foundation Europe (FSFE) has cooked up something special. The biggest donor
	of 2009 will share a cooking session with FSFE's President and other
	members of the organisation's executive team. FSFE is looking to raise
	100,000 Euro during the last quarter of 2009.</p>

<div class="actionbox">
  <p>For individuals:</p>
  <a href="/donate/donate.html">Donate now</a>
  <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">Join the Fellowship</a>
  <p>For companies:</p>
  <a href="/donate/donate.html">Donate now</a>
  <a href="/com-pkg/com-pkg.html">Buy professional services</a>
</div>

<p>Free Software and cooking are both about creativity, skill and enjoying
	yourself. "Recipes can be used for any purpose, including sharing them with
	others, and making your own improvements. In these respects cooking is just
	like Free Software - you have the freedom to use, study, share and improve"
	says FSFE's President Karsten Gerloff.</p>

<p>FSFE has been working for the Free Software community in Europe and beyond
	since 2001. Thanks to its supporters, the organisation has been able to
	break <a href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">proprietary monopolies</a>
	, defend European developers and users against <a
		href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">software patents</a>, and build the
	<a href="/projects/ftf">Freedom Task Force</a> into Europe's foremost
	expert group on legal aspects of Free Software.</p>

<p>Many threats continue to face Free Software however - and FSFE continues to
	fight against them. Computer users in Europe are forced to use proprietary
	software on a daily basis.  Closed standards build walls that restrict Free
	Software and its users. Interoperability in the European public sector is
	under attack, as proprietary software companies continue to push their
	agendas in Europe and around the world.</p>

<p>These are just a few of the issues that donors are entitled to discuss with
	senior FSFE staff. "A lot of us at FSFE are passionate hobby chefs. We are
	looking forward to sharing a creative time with supporters of Free
	Software," says Gerloff.</p>

<h2>The fine print</h2>

<div class="actionbox">
  <p>Current top 3 donors for 2009:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>Linuxhotel Villa Vogelsang</li>
    <li>Black Duck Software</li>
    <li>Intevation GmbH</li>
  </ol>
</div>

<ul>
	<li>Qualifying donations must be received between January 1 2009 and
		December 31 2009.</li>
	<li>A European location for the cooking event will be determined by
		discussion with the selected donor.</li>
	<li>At least two senior FSFE staff will cook for (and happily dine with) up
		to four persons chosen by the selected donor.</li>
	<li>Costs for accommodation and travel to the location of the dinner will
		be borne by FSFE.</li>
	<li>The list of the top three donors will be published on this website and
		updated regularly.</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
