<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-05-15">
<head>
  <title>FSFE seeking legal department coordinator and staff members</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE seeking legal department coordinator and staff members</h1>

<h2>Job description</h2>

<p>FSFE was established in 2001 as a multi-cultural distributed
 organisation with volunteers and staff distributed across various
 European countries. Its approach is that of a result driven NGO with
 emphasis on constructive dialogue for lasting political and legal
 change. As an environment FSFE has grown out of the Free Software
 community and is ideally suited to motivated individuals capable of
 driving projects and initiatives forward.</p>

<p newsteaser="yes">FSFE is seeking applicants for coordinator and staff
positions in our legal department, the Freedom Task Force.  The FTF coordinator
and staff work in cooperation with a mixed team of volunteers and employees to
support FSFE's mission.</p>

<h2>Responsibilities:</h2>

<ul>
  <li>Organising FSFE's legal activities, primarily through providing FSFE with
  strategic and tactical guidance regarding legal situations in Europe;</li>
  
  <li>Answering questions submitted to the FTF through email and the online
  tracker;</li>
  
  <li>Delivering training courses on Free Software licensing and related
  topics;</li>
  
  <li>Delivering consultancy on Free Software licensing and related topics;</li>
  
  <li>Facilitating and expanding the European Legal Network maintained by
  FSFE;</li>
  
  <li>Driving documentation and communication initiatives through the European
  Legal Network to create generic knowledge for the Free Software community as a
  whole;</li>
  
  <li>Facilitating meetings and conferences for European Free Software
  stakeholders;</li>
  
  <li>Delivering speeches and engaging with panels at conferences to spread the
  word about FTF activities and services.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Required qualifications:</h2>

<ul>
  <li>Coordinative abilities</li>
  
  <li>Negotiation abilities</li>
  
  <li>Business experience</li>
  
  <li>Knowledge of the Free Software Community</li>
  
  <li>Personal and professional reliability</li>
  
  <li>The ability to speak confidently in public</li>
  
  <li>An understanding of computing technology</li>
  
  <li>Proficiency in Free Software (GNU/Linux, OpenOffice.org)</li>
  
  <li>Fluent English</li>
</ul>

<h2>Useful experience would include:</h2>

<ul>
  <li>Experience with team work</li>
  
  <li>Experience in dealing with deadlines</li>
  
  <li>Experience in small team management</li>
  
  <li>Two years practical work experience in coordination or technology</li>
  
  <li>An understanding of German</li>
</ul>


<h2>It would be beneficial to have:</h2>

<ul>
  <li>An interest in understanding how licences work and why</li>
  
  <li>An interest in understanding how law works (but not specific items)</li>
  
  <li>An interest in understanding how Free Software projects work</li>
  
  <li>An interest in understanding how businesses work</li>
  
  <li>An understanding of French and/or Spanish</li>
</ul>

<h2>Working Conditions</h2>

<ul>
  <li>The FTF coordinator and staff usually work from an office environment, but
  the mission of the organization may sometimes take them to non standard
  workplaces. Work from the home office is possible.</li>
  
  <li>The FTF coordinator and staff usually work a standard work week, but
  additionally will regularly have work on evenings, weekends, and overtime
  hours to accommodate activities such as meetings of the General Assembly and
  representing the organisation at public events.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Rewards</h2>

<ul>

  <li>FTF roles provide many opportunities to work in a stimulating environment
  with people from different cultures on relevant issues that will continue to
  affect our societies for the decades to come.</li>
  
  <li>FSFE is unique in its structure and work as a decentralised international
  organisation with different activities and a mix of enthusiastic volunteers
  and staff in various countries.</li>
  
  <li>FSFE offers the opportunity to meet people from different areas of
  competency, and the chance to learn much about a variety of areas, such as
  technology, politics, and law.</li>
  
  <li>FSFE provides a high-responsibility and high-opportunity environment for
  people who like to work self-motivated and enjoy to shape their own working
  environment and projects to a high degree.</li>

</ul>

<h2>Further Information</h2>

<ul>

<li> FSFE's financial development over the past years is available at
    <a href="/about/funds/funds.html">http://fsfe.org/about/funds/funds.en.html</a></li>

</ul>

<h2>How to apply</h2>

<p>If you are interested in the position, please direct your
 application to the FSFE Executive Council at council -- AT --
 fsfeurope.org, including a current CV and a letter of
 motivation. Please provide all information
 in <a href="/projects/os/">Open Standards</a>
 and <a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/no-word-attachments.html">do
 not send Microsoft Word documents</a>.</p>

<p>We will review all applications and seek personal interviews with
 the most promising applicants.</p>


</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
