<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2009-01-23">
<head>
<title>FTF releases legal infrastructure guide for Free Software projects</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FTF releases legal infrastructure guide for Free Software projects</h1>

<p>2009-01-23, Zurich, Graeme West, FSFE.</p>

<p newsteaser="yes">FSFE's Freedom Task Force (FTF) is pleased to announce the release of a 
guide to assist with establishing legal infrastructure for Free Software 
projects.</p>

<p><a href="/projects/ftf/building-legal-infrastructure.html">The guide</a> gives tips on how Free Software projects can consolidate 
their legal position.  It includes information about setting up legal 
entities, dealing with copyright issues, managing trademarks, and best 
practices for project management.</p>

<p>"When projects start to become successful, it's important for their 
members to consider what structures will scale successfully, be 
compatible with the founding principles, and protect the integrity of 
the project community", says Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator. "This 
guide provides a starting point for internal debate, and can help 
projects prepare a description of their requirements for consultation 
with experts."</p>

<p>"Every project is different, but all can benefit from ensuring they 
have a sound legal basis", explains Graeme West, FTF Intern. The guide 
was authored by FTF staff in consultation with members of the FTF 
European Legal Network. It is available as part of the <a href="/projects/ftf">newly redesigned 
FTF web site</a>, where other guides on topics like licence compliance 
can also be found.</p>

<p>The guide can be found <a href="/projects/ftf/building-legal-infrastructure.html">at this location</a>.</p>

<h2>About the Freedom Task Force</h2>

    <p>The Freedom Task Force is an activity run by Free Software Foundation 
     Europe to help people understand Free Software licensing and the 
     opportunities it presents.  We offer educational services, facilitate 
     larger infrastructure activities and manage FSFE's legal affairs.  
     Our goals are to share knowledge about Free Software law, to 
     safeguard the interests of Free Software projects, to connect 
     experts in this field and to help other groups achieve similar goals.
     We believe in positive, constructive dialogue and seek at all times 
     to support the long-term sustainability of Free Software.</p>

<p>The FTF's homepage can be found at <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf">http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf</a> and you can contact us via email: ftf @ fsfeurope.org</p>

<p>You can phone us at</p>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66 Ext. 22</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7 Ext. 22</li>
</ul>

<p>Press contact: Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator,  FSFE extension: 408</p>

<h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-governmental
organisation active in many European countries and involved in many global
activities. Access to software determines participation in a digital society.
To secure equal participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is
dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use,
study, modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>You will find further information about the work of the FSFE at <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">http://www.fsfeurope.org/</a>.</p>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7</li>
</ul>

<p><a href="/contact/contact.html">Other ways to get in touch</a> with the
FSFE.</p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
