<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Open Standards - Overview</title>
  </head>

  <body>
 <p id="category">Our Work</p>
    <h1>Open Standards</h1>

 <div id="introduction">

    <p class="background">
      <a href="http://www.fsfe.org/projects/os/def.html">Open Standards</a>  allow people to share all kinds of data freely and with 
      perfect fidelity.  They prevent lock-in and other artificial barriers to 
      interoperability, and promote choice between vendors and technology
      solutions.  FSFE's work on <a href="http://www.fsfe.org/projects/os/def.html">Open Standards</a> has the goal of making sure
      that people find it easy to migrate to Free Software or between Free
      Software solutions.
    </p>
</div>
    <h2>Introduction</h2>

    <p>The relevance of Open Standards is closely linked to networking
    effects, and has consequently been rising dramatically. The reward
    for gaming the system for proprietary vendors is increasing, so is
    the cost for users of software.</p>

    <p>Governments, public interest NGOs, including groups that are
    concerned about freedom of competition or consumer rights are
    generally strong proponents of Open Standards. Typical critics are
    the proprietary software vendors and those that represent their
    interests. One of the items that critics seek to highlight is the
    inherent conflict between innovation and standardisation.</p>

    <p>Standardisation deliberately limits changes to a technological
    basis, including innovation. These limits are introduced in order
    to allow subsequent innovation by everyone that has access to the
    standard and not just the party that controls the technological
    basis. So standards limit the ability to innovate by a single
    party in order to allow innovation on the basis of that standard
    by multiple parties.</p>

    <p><a href="def">Open Standards</a> allow such innovation by all
    parties with no leverage for the initial developer of the platform
    to limit such innovation or the competition it represents.</p>

    <p>FSFE's goals include freedoms from lock-in, of innovation and
    competition for everyone. That is why FSFE is a strong supporter
    of <a href="def">Open Standards</a>.</p>

    <h2>Publications</h2>

    <dynamic-content />     
      
    <ul>
      <li>"<a href="ps.html">Analysis on balance: Standardisation and Patents</a>"<br />by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a></li>
      <li>"<a href="eifv2.html">EIFv2: Tracking the loss of interoperability</a>"<br />by <a href="/about/gerloff/gerloff.html">Karsten Gerloff</a> and <a href="/about/roy/roy.html">Hugo Roy</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h3>Publications at the IGF</h3>

    <ul>
      <li>"<a href="/projects/igf/sovsoft">Sovereign Software: Open Standards, Free Software, and the Internet</a>"<br />FSFE contribution to the first <a href="/projects/igf/igf">IGF</a>, by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h3>Publications on MS-OOXML</h3>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/documents/msooxml-questions">Six questions to national standardisation bodies</a></li>
      <li>FSFE Context Briefing: "<a href="/documents/msooxml-interoperability">Interoperability woes with MS-OOXML</a>"</li>
      <li>FSFE Context Briefing: "<a href="/documents/msooxml-idiosyncrasies">DIS-29500: Deprecated before use?</a>"</li>
      <li>Article on BBC: "<a href="/documents/msooxml-questions-for-ms">Questions for Microsoft on open formats</a>"</li>
      <li>Article on Heise.de: "<a href="/documents/msooxml-converter-hoax">The converter hoax</a>"</li>
    </ul>

    <h2>Related News</h2>
    <ul>
      <li><b>2010-03-24</b>: <a href="/news/2010/news-20100324-01.html">Radio station awarded for Open Standards</a></li>
      <li><b>2010-03-02</b>: <a href="/news/2010/news-20100302-01.html">Document Freedom Day 2010</a></li>
      <li><b>2009-11-27</b>: <a href="/news/2009/news-20091127-01.html">FSFE: EC caves in to proprietary lobbyists on interoperability</a></li>
      <li><b>2009-11-09</b>: <a href="/news/2009/news-20091109-02.html">FSFE in battle for European interoperability</a></li>
      <li><b>2009-03-25</b>: <a href="/news/2009/news-20090325-01.html">Today is DFD ‘09, global day for document liberation</a></li>
      <li><b>2008-04-02</b>: <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2008q2/000206.html">FSFE concerned about quality of standardisation process</a></li>
      <li><b>2008-03-26</b>: <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2008q1/000205.html">26 March 2008: Today is Document Freedom Day</a></li>
      <li><b>2008-03-26</b>: <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release-de/2008q1/000124.html">German Federal Foreign Ministry honored for Open Standards work</a> (in German)</li>
      <li><b>2008-03-06</b>: <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2008q1/000203.html">Petition calls for Open Standards in the European Parliament</a></li>
      <li><b>2008-02-28</b>: <a href="/news/2008/news-20080228-01">FSFE calls on Microsoft to release interoperability information without restrictions</a></li>
      <li><b>2008-02-20</b>: <a href="/news/2008/news-20080220-01">Introducing Document Freedom Day - 26 March:
A global day for document liberation</a></li>
      <li><b>2006-07-12</b>: <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2006q3/000147.html">Commission to Microsoft: Preventing interoperability has a price</a></li>
      <li><b>2006-04-27</b>: <a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2006q2/000137.html">Samba and FSFE: "Microsoft - obstacle to innovation in the digital society!"</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h2>External links of interest</h2>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="http://documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://www.odfalliance.org">ODF Alliance</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders.org</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://www.fsf.org/resources/formats/playogg">Play Ogg!</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://isp.law.yale.edu/static/papers/Open_Documents_and_Democracy.pdf">"Open Documents and Democracy"</a> by Laura de Nardis and Eric Tam, Yale Information Society Project</li>
      <li><a href="http://www.intgovforum.org/Substantive_1st_IGF/openstandards-IGF.pdf">"An Economic Basis for Open Standards"</a> by Rishab A. Ghosh</li>
      <li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=160">"An emerging understanding of Open Standards"</a> by <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a></li>
    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
