<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2025-08-12">
	<version>1</version>
	
<head>
	<title>After 100 days: German government falls short on Free Software
policy</title>
</head>
	
<body>
 
	<h1>After 100 days: German government falls short on Free Software
policy</h1>

<p>100 days after the German federal government took office, the Free
Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) sees its demand for Free Software in
public administration unfulfilled. While the governing coalition of CDU,
CSU, and SPD announced ambitious goals for Free Software in the
coalition agreement, no concrete, effective measures have been
taken.</p>

<p>The draft Public Procurement Acceleration Act
(Vergabebeschleunigungsgesetz) adopted by the Federal Cabinet on 6
August 2025 misses the opportunity to prioritise Free Software (also
known as Open Source) in public procurement. The planned “Germany Stack”
risks becoming a purely national silo project. It will fail without
EU-wide cooperation, transparency, and inclusion of the Free Software
ecosystem, in particular as it remains unclear whether the stack will be
developed entirely as Free Software. In addition, the 2025 federal
budget provides neither long-term, reliable funding for Free Software
nor adequate resources for the federal government’s Free Software
initiatives.</p>

<p>“If the federal government is serious about technological
sovereignty, it must consistently rely on Free Software. This is an
absolute prerequisite for achieving vendor independence, replaceability,
interoperability, and genuine innovation,” says Johannes Näder, Senior
Policy Project Manager at the FSFE. “The government must finally secure
reliable, long-term funding for Free Software and its initiatives such
as ZenDiS. Free Software must be given priority in public procurement.
This is the only way to end our administration’s risky dependency on
proprietary providers.”</p>

<p>The FSFE also calls on the federal government to develop an IT stack
in close cooperation with the EU, other member states, and the Free
Software ecosystem, and to involve civil society in the process. It
should also regularly collect and publish statistics on the procurement,
commissioning, and development of Free Software in public
administrations.</p>

<p>“We need accurate up-to-date data on the share of Free Software in
the public sector now,” Näder explains. “Only then can we assess whether
there is a real change in line with ‘Public Money? Public Code!’:
Software funded with public money should always be Free Software. The
time to act is now.”</p>

<p>A detailed analysis of the government’s performance will be published
on the <a href="/index.html/">>FSFE website</a> on 14 August 2025. Also <a href="/events/index.html#event-20250815-02">a presentation will be given
at FrOSCon (German language)</a>.</p>

<p>
Our demands for the election: <a href="/2025/news-20250206-01.html">https://fsfe.org/news/2025/news-20250206-01.html</a>
</p>
</body>

<tags>
<tag key="press">Press Release</tag>
<tag key="front-page"/>
<tag key="de">Germany</tag>
<tag key="procurement">Public Procurement</tag>
<tag key="pmpc">Public Money? Public Code!</tag>
</tags>

</html>


