<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Software Patents in Europe</title>
  </head>

  <body>

      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | Background | <a 
              href="/campaigns/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | <a 
              href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a>]
      </center>


    <h2>What are patents?</h2>

    <p>The idea of patents goes back to the medieval monarchs who conferred
        rights and privileges in the form of open letters (latin "litterae
        patentes") bearing their royal seal. Such patents on procedures to make
        glass, for instance, were commonly granted on the basis that this skill
        be taught to others.</p>

    <p>Later, democratic governments took the place of monarchs, but the basic
        idea remained the same: a limited monopoly was granted for a certain
        invention or process in exchanged for making that invention or process
        public. That way others could learn from it and further develop new
        inventions and processes.</p>

     <p>The underlying principle of patents and their justification is that
         they are monopolies which are granted by society for the sake of
         benefitting society.</p>

    <h2>What are software patents?</h2>

    <p>Software itself is implemented logic. Consequently, software patents are
        monopolies granted on implemented logic. It is important to understand
        that such monopolies are not on the implementation itself, which is
        covered by Copyright, but on the underlying logic of the
        implementation.</p>

    <p>Therefore, a software patent manifests a monopoly on specific calculation
        methods, which makes mathematical laws, logical rules and business
        processes property of companies, effectively disappropriating society
        of its grown knowledge.</p>

    <p>The effects of this can be dramatic. Not only does every program
        literally embed thousands of ideas that could be subject to software
        patents: While patents in other fields normally don't reach far outside
        the field they were granted in, software patents affect all areas and
        applications of software equally.</p>

    <p>Since software itself is increasingly becoming a determining factor,
        software patents have an incredible reach and more or less cover all
        areas of economy and society.</p>

    <p>Software patents are affecting the electricity industry as much as they
        affect insurance companies. They harm IT companies like IBM and
        research institutes like Fraunhofer. They are even bad for health.</p>

    <p>For good reason did the European Patent Convention (published 1973)
        explicitly state that the field of programs for computers, i.e.
        software, is excluded from patentability.</p>

    <p>Software patents are harmful to innovation, economy and society, so they
        lack justification.</p>

    <h2>Why would anyone want them?</h2>

    <p>Software patents were seen as a convenient tool by large companies in
        the United States to defend themselves against competition:</p>

    <p class="quote">"If people had understood how patents would be granted when most of
    today's ideas were invented and had taken out patents, the industry
    would be at a complete stand-still today. [...]  A future start-up
    with no patents of its own will be forced to pay whatever price the
    giants choose to impose. That price might be high: Established
    companies have an interest in excluding future competitors."
    <br />
    <div align="right">
        William H. Gates<br />
        Internal Microsoft Memo (1991)<br />
        [Fred Warshofsky, The Patent Wars (1994)]
    </div></p>

    <p>It should be understood that while the price of software patents is paid
        by all companies, big and small, the big ones can afford paying the
        price a little longer as they have deeper pockets. Also, they believe
        that it is worth the price to rid themselves of competition.</p>

    <p>Paying the price for the system, they obviously want their return on
        investment, which is why it is in particular the Business Software
        Alliance (BSA), a lobbying organisation for huge U.S. companies without
        European involvement, that has been pushing strongly for the adoption
        of software patents in Europe.</p>

    <p>Europe as a region is still gaining on the U.S. in terms of IT industry
        as it is free from the burden of software patents that the United
        States imposed on themselves.</p>

    <p>The small and medium software companies have made Europe a central
        player in innovation, while in the U.S., innovative software
        development is limited to a few monopolists.</p>

    <h2>The European Patent Office (EPO)</h2>

    <p>Another group that benefits from software patents are patent lawyers,
        because patent lawyers are needed to apply for a patent, to grant a
        patent and to contest a patent in court. From their perspective,
        software patents offer an area of almost unlimited patentability
        without the need for development or research.</p>

    <p>One of the places where patent lawyers are found is of course the
        European Patent Office (EPO), which has prepared the ground for the
        introduction of software patents by granting roughly 30,000 software
        patents -- acting clearly outside its mandate and disregarding the
        European Patent Convention from 1973. </p>

    <p>Since patent lawyers are also found in many ministries across Europe and
        not wanting to step on the toes of the EPO, several European
        politicians are now trying to legitimize these patents by declaring
        these to be "computer implemented inventions."</p>

    <p>That is why the directive in question is called the directive on
        "patentability of computer implemented inventions."</p>


  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
