<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>A future without software patents</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Software Patents</a>

    <h1>A future without software patents</h1>

    <p class="background">
      FSFE is working towards a world where software does what users
      want it to do. Software patents create legal and financial risks
      that make it more difficult to develop and distribute
      software. They are a real threat to users' freedom. They harm
      innovation and hinder healthy competition in the software market.
    </p>

	<h2>What are software patents?</h2>

    <p>
      Patents are monopoly rights, granted by the state to the creator
      of a technical invention. When applied to software, patents
      block the idea behind a program and prohibits others from
      writing or distributing programs that work in a similar way,
      even if those programs are developed without knowledge of the
      patent.  Unlike copyright, patents do not restrict the use of an
      expression or the code itself. Instead, patents restrict the use
      of certain ideas - in case of software these ideas consist of
      algorithms and mathematics.
    </p>

	<h2>Status quo in Europe</h2>
    
    <p>
     The European Patent Convention says that "programs for computers"
     cannot be patented. Despite this, the European Patent Office
     (EPO) has developed a doctrine saying that "computer implemented
     inventions" can be patented, and has issued possibly tens of
     thousands of patents on software. Due to the diversity of
     Europe's jurisdictions, enforcing these patents was so difficult
     that it was almost never done. This protected Free Software
     developers in Europe from the patent system's worst excesses.
    </p>
    
    <p>
     Under extraordinary pressure from the Free Software community,
     the European Parliament in 2005 rejected the software patent
     directive, which would have allowed patents on computer programs
     outright. Since then, efforts to make software patentable have
     shifted towards creating a "unitary patent" system for
     Europe. Under this system, the EPO would have greater
     independence to implement its patent-maximalist doctrine. The
     unitary patent system is also meant to make it easier to enforce
     patents. This raises the threat level for Free Software
     developers considerably.
    </p>

	<h2>Forcing software to be incompatible</h2>
    
    <p>
   Software patents are used to prevent others from achieving compatibility or interoperability, notably in the area of standardisation. By blocking interoperability, a patent can be used to make competition impossible and to prevent developers from writing code to offer equivalent software under better licence terms, such as Free Software licences.
    </p>

	<h2>Software patents hinder innovation</h2>
    
    <p>
      The harm to software innovation has been shown in various studies, for example by Nobel Prize winning economist Eric S. Maskin.  The reason is that software development is incremental:  To write a useful software package, you build your work of innovative features on top of old features. If the use of old features is restricted by patents, you are blocked in innovation.
    </p>

	<h2>Patents are unlike Copyright</h2>
    
    <p>
	  Patents are completely unlike copyright.  To avoid someone's copyright, you just have to ignore  their software.  But you cannot ignore patents.  Patent restrictions apply to your work, even if you are not aware of the patent.
    </p>

	<h2>Patent wars encourage monopolies</h2>

    <p>
      The biggest software companies hold the biggest software patent-portfolios to keep competitors out of their market. A large consortium of partners opposing the European Software Patent Directive [0] was possible, because software patents hinder all kinds of software development: free and proprietary, commercial and non-commercial.
    </p>

	<h2>Current threats: the unitary patent proposals</h2>

<p>The European Commission is working on a unitary patent system for the European Union. This system includes enforcement of the European Patent Office (EPO) with an unchecked power to decide upon the grant and validity of patents. Plans also include the creation of a central European patent court with patent lawyers as judges. Given an unchecked power of the EPO with a new pro-patent court, software patents would most likely become enforceable.</p>

	<h2>FSFE's work</h2>

<p>FSFE’s current focus is twofold: ensuring that the national courts are not removed from their current role, and ensuring that the legislation continues to exclude software from patentability.</p>
<p><em>[0] Proposal for a Directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions. (COM 2002/92)</em></p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Linienstr. 141, 10115 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br/>
      http://fsfe.org/campaigns/swpat/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
