<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>
      Software Patents -- a danger to democracy - 06 June 2005
    </title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <center>
      <h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>

      [ <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a>
      | <a href="/campaigns/swpat/background.html">Background</a>
      | <a href="/campaigns/swpat/status.html">Status</a>
      | <a href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
    </center>

    <br />

    <center>
      Open Letter 
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.html">2004-10-04</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041101.html">2004-11-01</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.html">2004-12-06</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050103.html">2005-01-03</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050207.html">2005-02-07</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.html">2005-03-07</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.html">2005-04-05</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.html">2005-05-02</a>]
      [2005-06-06]
    </center>

    <h2>Software Patents -- a danger to democracy</h2>
  
    <h3>6 June 2005</h3>

    <p>
Josep Borrell Fontelles is the President of the European Parliament.
    </p>
  

    <p>Dear President of European Parliament,</p>

    <p>
  On July 6th, European Parliament will have to decide on the "Software
  Patents" directive. By relying on undefined terms and ineffective
  limits, the text that the Council has handed to the Parliament would
  allow patents on software standards, business methods, and website
  development. 
    </p>

    <p>
  Unfortunately, with all the technical and legal debates about the
  text, the real world effects of software patents are often no longer
  discussed. FSFE would like to take this opportunity to discuss five of
  the 30,000 software patents so far granted by the European Patent
  Office. These would gain additional legal grounds to be enforced
  against Europeans for 20 years. Of course, the rate of software patent
  application will also rise sharply if this directive passes in its
  current form.
    </p>

    <p>
      <a href="http://l2.espacenet.com/espacenet/viewer?PN=EP287578">EP0287578</a>
      covers compressed audio including the "mp3" format.
      <a href="http://l2.espacenet.com/espacenet/viewer?PN=EP933892">EP0933892</a>
      covers making videos available via the Internet.
      <a href="http://l2.espacenet.com/espacenet/viewer?PN=EP633694">EP0633694</a>
      covers video-on-demand, such as transmission of live events.
    </p>

    <p>
  These three monopolies on common techniques for distributing
  information would gain additional legal grounds overnight. One example
  of a webpage where all three patents are being infringed is the
  "Hearings of the Commissioners-Designate" page on the Press Service
  section of the
  <a href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/press/audicom2004/index_en.htm">europarl
    website</a>.
</p>

    <p>
      <a href="http://l2.espacenet.com/espacenet/viewer?PN=EP689133">EP0689133</a>
      covers the use of "tabs" on a webpage, that can be clicked to see the
      information related to the tab's label.
      <a href="http://l2.espacenet.com/espacenet/viewer?PN=EP537100">EP0537100</a>
      covers the use of reduced-size images ("thumbnails") as clickable links
      to full sized image.
    </p>

    <p>
      The
      <a href="http://www.europarl.eu.int/code/photo_gallery/album1/default_en.htm">Conciliation
        Committee Photo Gallery</a> of the europarl website uses both of these
      techniques.  Thumbnails for the photos, and tabs for the languages that
      can be chosen.
    </p>

    <p>
  If that proliferation of the patent system to include software ideas
  is not reversed, the European Parliament, and the majority of MEPs --
  most of whose websites build upon these or other patented techniques
  -- will remain patent infringers. Naturally, the political value of
  MEPs acts as a safeguard against litigation. The patent holders will
  permit the MEPs to use those techniques, or at least keep turning a
  blind eye to their infringements.
    </p>

    <p>
  This is not true for ordinary citizens and businesses, however. Their
  most economical solution is to play dumb and hope they don't catch the
  eye of a patent holder. However, something like a venture capitalist
  investment, might inspire litigious desires.
    </p>

    <p>
  All five patents are commonly infringed, generally by people who are
  unaware of the existence of the patent. If a website owner was made
  aware of the last two patents, they could redesign their website, it
  might harm their site's usability, but they could avoid those patents.
  The first three patents mentioned make it difficult to impossible to
  offer video or audio over the Internet, in any way.
    </p>
    

    <p>
It is therefore up to the holder of the software patent to freely
  determine which citizen can seek and impart the first hand information
  about what their representatives are doing, and which cannot. The very
  basics of a democratic society are in danger.
    </p>

    <p>
  As is shown by the europarl website, software development is not only
  undertaken for commercial purposes.  It is done for social benefit and
  for practical reasons. This is in contrast to the traditionally
  patentable fields such as pharmaceutical or machinery, where
  participation in development or distribution implies that the company
  has sufficient funding to seek legal advice and possibly defend
  themselves in court or counter-litigate if the need arises.
    </p>

    <p>
  Of the example patents above, only one is owned by a European company,
  the other four are held by non-European entities.  This is roughly
  equivalent the overall situation of software patents in Europe, of
  which only 23% are held by European entities.
    </p>

    <p>
  In the interest of European democracy and economy, we encourage you to
  take a firm stand against software patents and vote for the amendments
  that define terms clearly and put a limit to the patenting of software
  ideas.
    </p>
 
    <p>With kind regards,</p>
    <p>
      <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg Greve</a><br />
      President<br />
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
      <a href="/">fsfe.org</a>
    </p>
  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
