<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Allianz Group will suffer because of software patents - October 4th, 2004</title>
  </head>
  
  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/campaigns/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | <a 
              href="/campaigns/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | <a
              href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
      </center>

      <br />

      <center> Open Letter 
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
                      [2004-10-04]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041101.html">2004-11-01</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.html">2004-12-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050103.html">2005-01-03</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050207.html">2005-02-07</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.html">2005-03-07</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.html">2005-04-05</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.html">2005-05-02</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050606.html">2005-06-06</a>]
      </center>


    <h2>Allianz Group will suffer because of software patents</h2>
  
    <h3>October 4th, 2004</h3>
  
      <p>Dear Mr. Diekmann,</p>
      
      <p>
        Have you ever considered offering general insurance for stock brokers
        against the risk of losing money? As absurd as this sounds, the European
        Commission is seriously considering equivalent measures at the moment.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        The European Council and the European Commission seek to introduce
        software patents in Europe. This is not only threatening any company
        doing business in Europe, <a
        href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release-de/2004q2/000030.html">a
        number of international scientists</a> also see it as a grave risk to
        European economies. Adding to the studies already known, recent
        publications by <a
        href="http://www.pwc.com/Extweb/pwcpublications.nsf/docid/EC6DE73A846581CE80256EFD002E41FB">Pricewaterhouse
        Coopers (PwC)</a> and <a
        href="http://www.dbresearch.com/PROD/DBR_INTERNET_EN-PROD/PROD0000000000175949.pdf">Deutsche
        Bank Research</a> further underline the damaging
        effect of software patents. As <a
        href="http://www.theregister.co.uk/2004/09/15/pwc_swpat_are_a_threat/">The
        Register</a> quotes PwC: "The mild regime [...] in the past has led to
        a very innovative and competitive software industry
        with low entry barriers. A software patent, which serves to protect
        inventions of a non-technical nature, could kill the high innovation
        rate."
      </p>
      
      <p>
        The reality of software patents is well-known for its purely
        speculative character. Although generally endorsed by noble goals such
        as promoting innovation, studies from the <a
        href="http://www.researchoninnovation.org/patent.pdf">Massachusetts
        Institute of Technology (MIT)</a> or the <a
        href="http://swpat.ffii.org/archiv/zitate/index.de.html#mopoko0207">German
        monopoly commission</a> show that software patents are harmful to
        innovation.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Software patent applications could be considered like the chips that
        are bet on a roulette table that -- if successful -- will win you the
        jackpot in form of a multi-billion Euro litigation. Any large
        corporation making use of software could find itself on the receiving
        end of such a bet. The more money at play and the more software used,
        the higher the chance of being targeted. Valuable companies such as
        Allianz group -- which are in the main dependent on software revenues
        are especially at risk of being adversely affected by the legalisation
        of software patents in the EU.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        While I believe the plans of the European Commission should already
        have you quite worried, the current plans are going to affect you in
        another aspect, as well.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        Having to acknowledge the harmful and potentially devastating effect
        of software patents on European companies and national economies, the
        European Commission recently introduced the idea of another directive
        aimed at creating a
        <a href="http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/indprop/docs/patent/studies/litigation_en.pdf">compulsory insurance</a>
        against software patents for all European enterprises. This insurance
        should obviously be cheap enough so that it does not immediately kill
        the European economy altogether.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        You, as CEO of Allianz Group will have to insure your enterprise,
        because you are at risk of being the target of a multi-billion Euro
        software patent litigation. This is essentially the same as asking for
        cheap compulsory insurance of all stock brokers against losing money
        -- and we are certain that you see the flaw in that logic.
      </p>
      
      <p>
        We would appreciate the opportunity to discuss this problem with you
        further, but now time is of the essence. The European Council is
        planning to decide in November and the European Parliament will then
        have to make a final decision early next year.
      </p>
      
      <p>With kind regards,</p>

      <p>
        <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg Greve</a><br />
        President<br />
        Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
        <a href="/">fsfe.org</a>
      </p>

  </body>
  
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
