<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>
      A compulsory insurance against software patents is like firefighting with
      petrol - November 1st, 2004
    </title>
  </head>
  <body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/campaigns/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | <a 
              href="/campaigns/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | <a
              href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
      </center>

      <br />

      <center> Open Letter 
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.html">2004-10-04</a>]
                      [2004-11-01]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.html">2004-12-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050103.html">2005-01-03</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050207.html">2005-02-07</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.html">2005-03-07</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.html">2005-04-05</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.html">2005-05-02</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050606.html">2005-06-06</a>]
      </center>

    <h2>
      Firefighting with petrol
    </h2>
  
    <h3>November 1st, 2004</h3>
  
    <p>Dear Mr Barroso,</p>

    <p>
      The preceding European Commission (EC) was campaigning actively for the
      introduction of software patents in Europe. This campaign was against the
      information and evidence showing that this would lead to considerable
      risk to the European economies: On top of the
      <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.html">studies already known</a>,
      recent publications by
      <a href="http://www.theregister.co.uk/2004/09/15/pwc_swpat_are_a_threat/">Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC)</a>
      and
      <a href="http://www.dbresearch.com/PROD/DBR_INTERNET_EN-PROD/PROD0000000000175949.pdf">Deutsche Bank Research</a>
      further underlines the damaging consequences of software patents on
      Europe. As The Register quotes PwC: "The mild regime [...] in the past
      has led to a very innovative and competitive software industry with low
      entry barriers. A software patent, which serves to protect inventions of
      a non-technical nature, could kill the high innovation rate."
    </p>

    <p>
      The reality that software patents are becoming an innovation restriction
      may be one reason why all the parties in the German parliament objected
      to their introduction. This is the first time (which we are aware of)
      that all parties have objected in this way. Furthermore acknowledging the
      damaging effect of software patents, the latest idea of the parting
      European Commission is
      <a href="http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/indprop/docs/patent/studies/litigation_en.pdf">compulsory insurance</a>
      to limit the damage.
      This insurance would apply to both defendants and patentees. When looking
      for examples of software patent litigation that this insurance should
      protect against, one does not have to look far: Eolas Technologies sued
      Microsoft because of the infringement of a software patent in 1999.
      Meanwhile - five years and remarkable legal expenses later - the US
      Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) has declared the patent invalid. There
      is no expert certain the patent would be upheld.  Nevertheless Eolas
      declared they would keep fighting, there is no way to predict when this
      litigation will end. Eolas is continuing along this road without
      insurance against losing the lawsuit.
    </p>

    <p>
      In this sense, the planned compulsory insurance is like firefighting with
      petrol: We already have 30,000 software patents in Europe. Many
      compulsory insured patentees will consider the insurance as an investment
      they need a return on. Returns from software patents are reaped in
      lawsuits filed. The result: Rapidly exploding insurance premiums,
      insurance companies limiting their risk to what they can calculate, and
      in the end patentees and defendants will find themselves in a situation
      similar to one without compulsory insurance, but with one important
      difference: They will have spent an insane amount of money on a useless
      insurance and bureaucracy for its administration will have skyrocketed.
      With these developments, working on reducing bureaucracy in the European
      Commission will become a futile endeavour, but more importantly,
      innovations in the information society will be eliminated and Europe will
      not become a competitive knowlege based economy by 2010.
    </p>

    <p>
      We therefore ask you to please spare the European economy both the
      introduction of software patents (one of the most efficient road blocks
      to innovation and economic growth in the information society) and the
      madness of insurance against this needlessly created risk.
    </p>

    <p>With kind regards,</p>

    <p>
      <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg Greve</a><br />
      President<br />
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
      <a href="/">fsfe.org</a>
    </p>
  </body>
  
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
