<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>
      Software patents are putting the wealth of the software patent lobby over
      the health of citizens in Europe and around the world - 3 January 2005
    </title>
  </head>

<body>
      <center><h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>
          [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a> | <a
              href="/campaigns/swpat/background.html">Background</a> | <a 
              href="/campaigns/swpat/status.html">Status</a> | <a
              href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
      </center>

      <br />

      <center> Open Letter 
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.html">2004-10-04</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041101.html">2004-11-01</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.html">2004-12-06</a>]
                      [2005-01-03]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050207.html">2005-02-07</a>]
                      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.html">2005-03-07</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.html">2005-04-05</a>]
      		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.html">2005-05-02</a>]
		      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050606.html">2005-06-06</a>]
      </center>

    <h2>
        Software patents are bad for your health
    </h2>
  
    <h3>3 January 2005</h3>
  
    <p>Dear Mr LEE Jong-wook,</p>

    <p>
      Software patents grant a monopoly on their specific idea. The patentee
      can grant or withhold authorisation to use that idea and unilaterally
      define the terms under which such authorisation is granted or
      withheld. This is before even a single line of source code has been
      written. In fact: lawyers are generally in a better position to obtain
      software patents than the majority of programmers are. Each program
      consists of thousands of ideas -- each of them potentially subject to
      patent claims. Even though the European Patent Convention explicitly
      excludes software from being patented, so far 30,000 software patents
      have in fact already been granted in recent years.
    </p>

    <p>
      The <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">discussion</a> about a formal introduction of software patents has
      been ongoing for several years and we would like to make you aware of
      the effect of software patents on telemedicine, an area of great hope
      for many.
    </p>

    <p>
      Today, we are seeing the first steps in the telemedicine area. Instead
      of being delivered by traditional post, X-Ray scans are transferred
      electronically, reducing the availability timescale from days to
      seconds. Physicians will soon be able to monitor individual patients
      remotely, something that will in particular offer possibilities of
      increased medical coverage for people in remote areas all over the
      world. Given the demographic development in northern countries and the
      increasing medical needs of potentially wealthy elderly people; that
      particular idea was patented years ago.
    </p>

    <p>
      The database of the European Patent Office currently contains 69
      patents directly referring to "telemedicine". That seemingly low
      number should not let you rest easy. Not only is the number of
      software patents likely to skyrocket after the formal introduction of
      software patents.
    </p>

    <p>
      Each application in the field of telemedicine will also depend on
      basic software principles to function. These basic principals include
      security, networking and data storage. Security in particular is key,
      because the number of methods to make computer systems secure are
      limited. There is no compulsory licensing of software patents, so
      market tactics are likely to see many applications disappear in
      courtroom battles before they have become available to patients. In
      addition, besides having to refinance the legal costs, each
      telemedicine and remote surgery application is likely to suffer from
      known security holes and stability problems.
    </p>

    <p>
      Software patents are putting the wealth of the software patent lobby
      over the health of citizens in Europe and around the world.
    </p>

    <p>
      That is why we believe software patents will adversely affect your
      cause and are asking you to take a firm stand against software
      patents. If you have further questions, need additional information or
      would like to help us prevent software patents in Europe, please do
      not hesitate to get in touch.
    </p>

    <p>With kind regards,</p>

    <p>
      <a href="/about/people/greve/">Georg Greve</a><br />
      President<br />
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
      <a href="/">fsfe.org</a>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
