<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>
      Software patents harm banks - 7 February 2005
    </title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <center>
      <h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>

      [ <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">Introduction</a>
      | <a href="/campaigns/swpat/background.html">Background</a>
      | <a href="/campaigns/swpat/status.html">Status</a>
      | <a href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Further Reading</a> ]
    </center>

    <br />

    <center>
      Open Letter 
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">2004-05-10</a>] 
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.html">2004-05-31</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.html">2004-07-06</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.html">2004-08-02</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.html">2004-09-06</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.html">2004-10-04</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041101.html">2004-11-01</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.html">2004-12-06</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050103.html">2005-01-03</a>]
      [2005-02-07]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.html">2005-03-07</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.html">2005-04-05</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.html">2005-05-02</a>]
      [<a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050606.html">2005-06-06</a>]
    </center>

    <h2>
      Software patents harm banks
    </h2>
  
    <h3>7 February 2005</h3>
  
    <p>
      "<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basel_II">Basel II</a> is a round
      of deliberations by central bankers from around the world, under the
      auspices of the International Bank of Settlements in Basel, Switzerland,
      aimed at producing uniformity in the way banks and banking regulators
      approach risk management across national borders."
      Mr Nout Wellink is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and President
      of the International Bank Settlements.
    </p>

    <p>Dear Mr. Wellink,</p>

    <p>
      in our <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.html">open letter</a> to
      the head of the Allianz insurance group, Mr. Diekmann, we explained how
      <a href="/campaigns/swpat/swpat.html">software patents</a> are likely to
      become a massive cost and risk factor for all money and information
      technology intensive businesses like insurance companies. The same holds
      true for banks.
    </p>

    <p>
      Software patents establish monopolies on abstract ideas which are
      available to anyone, including those who do no software development but
      do have legal departments. Like all larger software projects, all parts
      of Basel II consist of a multitude of ideas, each of which may become
      subject to a monopoly by anyone. If you for instance check the database
      of the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), you will already discover
      <a href="http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&amp;Sect2=HITOFF&amp;p=1&amp;u=%2Fnetahtml%2Fsearch-bool.html&amp;r=0&amp;f=S&amp;l=50&amp;TERM1=%22credit+risk%22&amp;FIELD1=&amp;co1=AND&amp;TERM2=&amp;FIELD2=&amp;d=ptxt">180 patents</a>
      on software ideas concerning "credit risk" -- the central issue of
      Basel II.
    </p>

    <p>
      There is no compulsory licensing for any of these, the particular
      patent holder gets to determine the terms on which they will grant or
      deny use of the monopoly on each individual idea.
    </p>

    <p>
      But the implementations of Basel II will naturally also depend upon a
      multitude of standard components, such as file services, databases,
      transfer protocols and more. Each of these is similarly subject to
      software patents. Since the number of methods to secure computer
      systems is limited, this may mean that Basel II will have to implement
      its features on a known insecure basis.</p>

    <p>
      Once Basel II becomes widely used, a dramatic increase in software
      patent infringement lawsuits for this area is likely to occur on a
      global basis. Any bank or any of its customers for Basel II based
      software may become target of such legal action -- the risk is
      incalculable and can bring about multi-billion Euro lawsuits.
    </p>

    <p>
      Most banks are still unaware of this threat -- they have not realized
      that software patents will affect them to such an extent. When
      we were recently talking to a German bank, they were shocked when they
      realized what software patents will mean to their business.
    </p>

    <p>
      Software patents will dramatically reduce the innovation rate and
      competitiveness of European economy in general, and to you they mean
      introducing an incalculable risk that can generate huge damages.
    </p>

    <p>
      That is why we ask you to protect your interests and take initiatives
      against software patents -- directly and by supporting our work. Also,
      should you have further questions, please do not hesitate to get in
      touch.
    </p>

    <p>Best regards,</p>
    <p>
      <a href="/about/greve/">Georg Greve</a><br />
      President<br />
      Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE)<br />
      <a href="/">fsfe.org</a>
    </p>
  </body>
  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
