<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - Software Patents in Europe</title>
    <meta content="Information about software patents - a problem for companies, developers and users." name="description" />
    <meta content="computer implemented inventions software patent law copyright ideas computer program compatibility and interoperability companies software developers users non-free Free Software legal uncertainty costs pay smartphones" />
  </head>

  <body>
  <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>Software Patents in Europe</h1>

<div id="introduction">

    <p>

      We are working towards a world where software does <em>what software
        users want it to do</em>. For this, software users must be able to
      participate in the development and distribution of the software.
      Software patents block this goal by adding <em>legal and financial
        risks</em> to software development and distribution and by giving the
      patent holders legal power to completely prohibit software developers
      from using the patented ideas.  
      
    </p>
</div>

    <p>
      To understand how patents work, it is important to realise that
      they have almost nothing in common with copyright.  While
      copyright is granted on the the work of an author, such as a
      computer program, patents are granted on ideas that could be
      used inside a computer program.  So when thinking of patents,
      think of "symphony combining wind and string instruments" and
      not "Beethoven's 2nd symphony." 
    </p>

    <h2 id="about">A problem for everybody</h2>

    <ul>

      <li>Software patents add legal risks, and therefore costs, to software
      development.</li>

      <li>They specifically inhibit the development of useful software by
      blocking compatibility and interoperability.</li>

      <li>Patents are incompatible with software because software is
      so complex - too many ideas are used for it to be practical to
      count them and check them against existing patents</li>

    </ul> 

  <p><a href="http://en.swpat.org/wiki/All_businesses_are_targets">Software
    patents are a problem for everybody </a>, no matter if big or small
  companies, individual software developers, users, non-free or Free Software.
  </p>

  <ul>

    <li>The <em>companies</em> have to spent more money for their legal department, to
    register patents, to negotiate patent crosslicensing, and to defend
    themselves against patent claims. While for some time software patents are
    a nice tool for big companies to prevent newcomers to compete with them,
    they also have to face companies who only sue others on software patents,
    and never do any software development by themselves. Against them, any
    software company can only loose.</li>

    <li>For <em>software developers</em> software patents mean legal
    uncertainty: whenever you start programming you might violate law. You will
    never be able to find out if you violate a patent. Even if you read a
    software patent you might not realise it covers what you are currently
    implementing.  With patents, we have to pay money to register them. On the
    other hand with copyright, everybody of us even those who just program as a
    hobby can write a program, and afterwards this falls under copyright
    without any additional costs. In fact, software patents can dispossess us
    as they can prevent from using the rights we get from copyright, e.g. to
    distribute the program to others. </li>
    
    <li><em>Users</em> would have to pay for all those costs.  Some people
    estimate that the patent costs for smartphones are about 20% of the actual
    price payed by the customer. </li>

</ul>

    <h2 id="status">The current status</h2>

    <p> If an inventor wants to file a europen patent application, this will have to comply 
   with the European Patent Convention (EPC), <a
      href="http://www.epo.org/law-practice/legal-texts/html/epc/2013/e/ar52.html">here software is explicitelly excluded</a> from the patentable subject matter.  
	This means that according to the EPC "programs for computers" shall not be regarded as inventions and therefore are not patentable.  
	At the same time the EU is part of the TRIP agreement where is stated that <i> <a href="http://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/trips_e/t_agm3c_e.htm#5">patents shall be available for any inventions, 		whether products or processes, in all fields of technology</a>. </i>
    	This two partly contradictory provisions creates a dilemma and legal uncertenty, the task of interpreting and clearing up this gray area is of the EPO's Technical Board of Appeal (TBA). EPO's undertaken 		approach is to grant software patents by declaring them as Computer Implemented Inventions (CII). The subsequent question that arises is how to distinguish a patentable CII from a non-patentable 		computer progam "as such".
	One of the erliest TBA undertaken approaches goes under the name of <a href="http://www.epo.org/law-practice/case-law-appeals/recent/t840208ep1.html"> "technical effect" or "technical contribution"</a>:  		according to this approach a mathematical method is not a mathematical method "as such" if a technical result is achieved. The technical result can be a change in a <a href="http://www.epo.org/law-practice/case-law-appeals/recent/t840208ep1.html">digital image</a>. In fact it has been argued that a mathematical method "as such" would have achieved only a result in numerical form.<br></br>
	The current TBA approach it goes under the name of "any harware approach": making the long story short, it entails that whether a software patent application involves the use of, or is, a piece of physical 	hardware, than it will fall outside the prohibition of patenting software "as such". Some case law follwing this line of thinking was decided in: <a href="http://www.epo.org/law-practice/case-law-appeals/recent/t030258ep1.html">T 258/03 - Auction method/Hitachi</a> and <a href="http://www.epo.org/law-practice/case-law-appeals/recent/t030424eu1.html">T 0424/03 (Clipboard formats I/MICROSOFT)</a>. </p>
    
    <p>In the US our sister organisation is working to <a
      href="http://www.fsf.org/blogs/software-patents-after-bilski">build
      awareness to the harm caused by software patents</a> and in New Zealand
    the government understood the problem and <a
      href="http://news.swpat.org/2010/03/new-zealand-govt-against-software-patents/">recommended
      in April 2010 to include computer programs amongst inventions that may not be
      patented</a>. </p>
  
  

  <h2 id="actions">Selected FSFE actions</h2>

  <!-- the following artciles should be tagged and added as related articles -->

  <!--
  <p>From 2004 to 2005 we wrote open letters about software patents addressed
  to <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040510.html">all citizens of Europe</a>,
  <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040531.en.html">the German President Prof.
    Köhler</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040706.en.html">Fraunhofer
    Gesellschaft (FhG)</a>, 
  <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040802.en.html">IBM</a>, <a
    href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20040906.en.html">the Dutch prime
    minister</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041004.en.html">Allianz
    Group</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041101.en.html">Mr
    Barroso</a>, <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20041206.en.html">President of
    the European electricity industry Hans Haider</a>, 
  <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050103.en.html">Mr LEE Jong-wook</a>, <a
    href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050207.en.html">Nout Wellink is the Chairman
    of the Board of Directors and President of the International Bank
    Settlements</a>, <a
    href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050307.en.html">Catherine Parmentier Chief
    Executive Officer of EUROCITIES</a>, <a
    href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050405.en.html">Mr Provoost president of
    EICTA</a>, 
  <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050502.en.html">Charlie McCreevy</a>, and
  <a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20050606.en.html">Josep Borrell Fontelles,
    President of the European Parliament</a>.</p> 
  -->

  <!-- the following things should be removed and the tagged news added. -->

  <ul>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/news/2013/news-20130612-01.html">German Parliament
        tells government to strictly limit patents on software</a></strong> On
    Friday the 7th of June the German Parliament decided upon a joint motion to
    limit software patents (see English translation by BIKT). The Parliament
    urges the German Government to take steps to limit the granting of patents
    on computer programs. Software should exclusively be covered by copyright,
    and the rights of the copyright holders should not be devalued by third
    parties' software patents.  The only exception where patents should be
    allowed are computer programs which replace a mechanical or electromagnetic
    component. In addition the Parliament made clear that governmental actions
    related to patents must never interfere with the legality of distributing
    Free Software.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/current/unitary-patent.html">EU: the 
    unitary patent</a></strong></p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/letter-20101222.html">Letter to German 
    competition authorities - 2010-12-22</a></strong> Free Software Foundation Europe's 
    concerns regarding the acquisition of Novell's patents by CPTN Holdings</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/ipred2/ipred2.html"> 2007-present: IPRED2
        - The Criminalisation Directive</a></strong> A proposal has been made
    by the European Commission to criminalise and increase the penalties and
    invasive investigative measures for patents, copyrights, trademarks, and
    all other laws lumped together by the term "<a
      href="/activities/wipo/iprip.html">Intellectual Property</a>".  It looks like
    patents will now be excluded from this directive, but the legislative
    process is still ongoing and there are many other harmful aspects of this
    directive that must be corrected.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/gplv3/gplv3.html">2006-2007: Version 3 of
        the GNU GPL</a></strong>: During the 18 month public consultation for
    the drafting of GPLv3, FSFE worked to assist community participation.
    Among other benefits, GPLv3 offers better protection for free software
    developers against patent litigation.  Our licences can only solve a small
    part of the harm of software patents, but they can make free software
    development easy in some ways.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/ciaran/?p=49">
        2006-July-12th: Participation in EC hearing</a>:</strong> Ciaran
    O'Riordan represented and made a statement on behalf of FSFE at this
    hearing organised by the European Commission on the future of the patent
    system.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/fsfe-patstrat-response.html">
        2006-March-31st: Response submitted to EC patent
        questionnaire</a></strong>: FSFE has submitted its response to the
    European Commission's questionnaire titled "On the patent system in
    Europe".</p></li>

    <li><p><strong>2005-July-6th: Software Patent Directive Dropped</strong>:
    After years of struggle, the European Parliament finally rejected the
    software patent directive with 648 of 680 votes.</p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/second-reading-bullets.html">
        2005-July-1st: Bullet Points on the Second Reading</a></strong>: One
    week before the second reading vote by the European Parliament, FSFE sent a
    simplified explanation of the core areas of confusion.  This was delivered
    in six languages which were produced on short notice by the FSFE
    translation team. </p></li>

    <li><p><strong><a href="/campaigns/swpat/memorandum.html"> 2005-June-28th:
        Karlsruhe Memorandum</a></strong>: The Free Software Foundation Europe
    has published, on June 28th 2005, the Karlsruhe Memorandum against software
    patents. This memorandum collected more than 200 signatures at this year's
    GNU/LinuxTag conference in Karlsruhe.  Citing scientific evidence, the text
    argues that software patents in Europe will hurt jobs and innovation. Among
    the supporters are leaders of some of Europe's biggest trade union groups.
    All MEPs received a copy of this.</p></li>

  </ul>


   	<h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  
    <ul>
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/swpat/background.html">Basic information</a></h3>
        <p>
          What are patents, what are software patents, and why would anyone want them? 
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/campaigns/swpat/documents.html">Background documents</a></h3>
        <p>
          How do software patents influence very different areas of society and economy?
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://en.swpat.org">End Software Patents</a></h3>
        <p>
          Goal of this website is to build an information resource for campaigns against software patents worldwide.
        </p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <h3><a
          href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Transcripts#patents">Software patents presentations</a></h3>
        <p>
          List of transcripts, such as Richard Stallman's 2004 talk: <a
            href="http://www.ifso.ie/documents/rms-2004-05-24.html">The Dangers
            of Software Patents</a>
        </p>
      </li>

  	</ul>
   
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
