<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>EU Radio Directive - FSFE</title>
  </head>
  <body id="radiodirective" class="article" microformats="h-entry">

<!-- Breadcumb -->
<p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our work</a></p>
<!-- / Breadcumb -->

<h1 class="p-name">EU Radio Directive</h1>

<!-- @TRANSLATORS: PLEASE DO NOT TRANSLATE YET, WORK IN PROGRESS -->

<div class="e-content">

<div id="introduction">

<p>Radio signals are everywhere and increasingly many devices communicate using 
wireless and mobile networks or GPS, and so legal regulations about the usage 
of radio signals are increasing too. A European directive wants to unify and 
improve them by demanding device manufacturers to check a software's 
compliance. At first sight, this may sound reasonable but it has highly 
negative implications on <a href="#freesoftware">user rights and Free 
Software</a>, fair <a href="#competition">competition</a>, <a 
href="#society">innovation, environment, and volunteering</a> – mostly without 
comparably large benefits for <a href="#security">security</a> unfortunately. 
We have formulated <a href="#demands">several demands</a> to EU institutions 
and EU member states with concrete steps to solve these issues.</p>

</div>

<h2>Briefly about the directive</h2>

<p>In May 2014 the European Parliament and the European Council passed the 
Radio Equipment Directive <a 
href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX%3A32014L0053">2014/53/EU</a>. 
It's main purposes are harmonisation of existing regulations, improving 
security of radio spectrums, and protection of health and safety. All EU 
members states have to implement the directive in national law until 12.06.2016 
with a transition period of one year. The countries use to have some room for 
interpretation in the implementation process. The directive itself is not bad, 
and we support its aim at large. However, at some points the lawmakers 
exaggerated to the disadvantage of user rights and fair competition.</p>

<p>In fact, almost all devices which can send and receive radio signals (WiFi, 
mobile network, GPS...) are affected. The crunchpoint is in Article 3.3(i): 
radio equipment shall support "<em>certain features in order to ensure that 
software can only be loaded into the radio equipment where the compliance of 
the combination of the radio equipment and software has been 
demonstrated</em>". This implies that device manufacturers have to check every 
software which can be loaded on the device regarding its compliance with 
applicable radio regulations (e.g. signal frequency and strenght).</p>

<h2 id="freesoftware">Dangers for Free Software</h2>

<p>The radio equipment directive 2014/53/EU will have a negative effect on 
users and companies. Because device manufacturers will have to assess every 
software regarding its compliance with existing national radio regulations 
(Art. 3.3(i)), we expect it to become impossible or very hard for users and 
companies to use alternative software on devices they bought – routers, mobile 
phones, WiFi-cards, or almost all Internet-of-Things devices in the future.</p>

<p>This not only is a severe burden for those affected but also violating the 
customers' rights of free choice. They will be locked in to software of the 
manufacturers because they cannot choose the software and hardware 
independently anymore. This aspect is crucial because alternative, especially 
<a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>, often satisfies 
special requirements regarding security, technical features and standards, or 
legal demands.</p>

<p>The status quo erects high barriers for customers to control their
soft- and hardware. Increasingly many devices use radio signals, among
them very sensible ones like mobile phones, personal computers,
household equipment, or the internet access gateways in homes and
companies. For the sake of security and fair competition we have to make
sure that people can always choose the software they want to run on
their devices without additional constraints, as long as the software
does respect current laws (see the chapter about security).</p>

<p>We see negative outcomes of this directive already. Several
manufacturers have installed modules on their devices checking which
software is loaded. This is done by built-in non-free and non-removable
modules disrespecting users' rights and demands to use technology which
they can control. For the future we are afraid of modules not only
checking software but also the exact location or behaviour of the
owners.</p>

<h2 id="competition">Dangers for competition</h2>

<p>There are many companies depending on the usage of alternative and
Free Software firmware on devices. Among them are wireless network
providers, creators of more secure mobile operating systems, or
programmers of custom-tailored and more efficient software solutions for
existing hardware. All of them might be hindered and discriminated
economically against larger manufacturers with their inhouse software.
Alternative software is the foundation of many companies' products, and
we should prevent economic disadvantages for them.</p>

<p>Especially for smaller and medium-sized businesses we expect negative
outcomes, not only because of the dangers of their software not or
heavily delayed being assessed by manufacturers. But also due to the
expectable high costs for those manufacturing enterprises having to
assess each and every firmware thoroughly. This will also have an
additional negative impact on start-up businesses.</p>

<p>Concerning legal affairs we assume difficulties with existing license
conditions, for example with the GNU General Public License. It requires
all parts of the software to be under the same or a compatible license.
Manufacturers having to include proprietary non-compatible software
parts then might infringe the terms of the GNU GPL.</p>

<h2 id="society">Innovation, Volunteering, Sustainability</h2>

<p>If the directive becomes effective without necessary exceptions (see
below) this will imply basic conditions for innovation negatively.
Progress is done by learning from past developments and walking new
paths. If all communicative devices are locked down, a huge area of
innovation will be too.</p>

<p>Same applies to charity initiatives and organisations depending on using 
custom software on devices they bought. Efforts of volunteer associations, for 
example <a href="http://freifunk.net/">Freifunk</a> helping people in need to 
connect to the internet, may be rendered void or at least handicapped severely. 
Since we are sure that this implication was not intended by the European 
institutions we ask for necessary changes.</p>

<p>Furthermore, alternative software on radio (and also non-radio)
devices also promotes a sustainable economy. There are many devices
still in working order which do not receive updates from the original
manufacturers anymore. In most cases, Free Software firmware has a much
longer support period which prevents users customers having to dispose
still working electronical equipment. In return, this also improves the
security of users since older hardware still receives security updates
after a manufacturer stops supporting those.</p>

<h2 id="security">Speaking about security</h2>

<p>We are in favor of the directive's aim to improve security of radio
devices but not at the unbalanced expense of users' freedom. For one
thing we are convinced that such strict regulations are not necessary
for typical consumer products with limited radio output power. And for
another thing we believe that such technical restructions will not
hinder those people willingly intending to violate applicable radio
regulations.</p>

<p>Especially Free Software firmwares are very advanced in terms of
security measurements, no least because technical errors get fixed
quickly in collaborative and transparent processes. If a software on a
device actually violate a radio regulation it would be the more
efficient way to support the software's creators instead of restricting
users' independence on a massively broad level.</p>

<h2 id="demands">Our demands</h2>

<blockquote>
<h3>What we expect of EU institutions</h3>

<p>We ask EU institutions to adopt delegated acts (Art. 44) which either

<ul>
  <li>makes general exceptions for all Free Software not developed by the 
  manufacturers of the respective radio equipment itself.</li>
  <li>make an exception for consumer electronics and/or for devices which in 
  general do not have the potential to jam forbidden radio spectrums 
  massively.</li>
</ul>
</p>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
<h3>What we expect of EU member states</h3>

<p>We ask member state legislations to interpret the directive's parts
in question as Free Software and user rights friendly as possible, and
to facilitate the users' and companies' concerns regarding the critical
points to EU institutions.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>In all cases we demand the institutions to take care of consumer
rights. Users shall not be forced to use non-free software on their most
private radio equipment. Also, small and middle-sized manufacturers
shall not be burdened disproportionally by being forced to assess each
and every alternative software.</p>



</div><!--/e-content-->

<!-- No news yet
  <h2>Related news</h2>

      <fetch-news/>
-->

  </body>
  
<tags>
  <tag content="Radio Directive">RadioDirective</tag>
  <tag content="Policy">Policy</tag>
  <tag content="Competition">Competition</tag>
</tags>

<sidebar promo="our-work">

 <dynamic-content />     

<!-- Nothing yet
<h2>More about compulsory routers</h2>
-->

<h2>External links</h2>
    <ul>
        <li>Full text of <a href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX%3A32014L0053">Radio Equipment Directive 2014/53/EU</a></li>
    </ul>

</sidebar>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
