<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Our Work at the European Union - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/projects/work.html">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>European Union</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
      	Our involvement in the European Union policy goes back to 2001,
      	when FSFE became an interested third-party in the Commission's
      	antitrust case against Microsoft. Since then, we have kept
      	on promoting Free Software by focusing on fundamental principles,
      	such as fair competition, being respected.
      </p>
    </div>
    
    <h2>EU Browser case</h2>
      <p>
        Free Software Foundation Europe supported the European Commission's
        antitrust investigation against Microsoft as an interested third party.
        The investigation began on the 16th of January when the European
        Commission DG Competition reported that it had issued a statement of
        objections regarding Microsoft's abuse of web standards and the tying of
        Internet Explorer (IE) to the Windows Operating System product family.
        It is based on a complaint submitted by Opera, a European company
        involved in web browser development, which FSFE publicly supported in
        2007.
      </p>
   
    <h2>European Interoperability</h2>
    
    <p>
      The European Commission is investigating the way Microsoft prevents
      competitors from interfacing with many of its desktop productivity
      programs. FSFE's President Karsten Gerloff says: "We welcome the
      Commission's decision to keep the interoperability investigation open
      while it monitors whether Microsoft's promises help to promote
      competition."
    </p>
    
    <p>
      FSFE is also pushing for <a href="/projects/os/">Open Standards</a>, which
      are key to interoperability and as such FSFE promotes their adoption, especially through the <a href="/news/2009/news-20091127-01.en.html">revision of the European Interoperability Framework</a>. 
    </p>
    
    <h2>Other ongoing activities</h2>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/projects/fp7/fp7.en.html">7th EC Framework Programme</a></li>
      <li><a href="/projects/ipred2/ipred2.en.html">IPRED 2 - Criminalisation of copright and trademark infringement</a></li>
      <li><a href="/projects/self/self.en.html">SELF (Science, Education and Learning in Freedom)</a></li>
    </ul>
    
    <h2>What we achieved</h2>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.en.html">FSFE and the antitrust case against Microsoft</a> (2001-2007)</li>
      <li><a href="/projects/fp6/fp6.en.html">6th EC Framework Programme</a> (2002)</li>
    </ul>
      
   
    <h2>Related news</h2>
   
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091216-01.html">2009/12/16: FSFE welcomes greater user choice in browsers, warns that Free Software is excluded from interoperability</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091127-01.html">2009/11/27: EC caves in to proprietary lobbyists on interoperability</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091109-02.html">2009/11/09: FSFE in battle for European interoperability
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091008-01.html">2009/10/08: Microsoft settlement leaves Free Software in the cold
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20091006-01.html">2009/10/06: Microsoft antitrust case: FSFE offers analysis to European Commission
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20090728-01.html">2009/07/28: EU browser case: FSFE says details of settlement will be crucial
</a></li>
      <li><a href="/news/2009/news-20090227-01.html">2009/02/27: FSFE engages in the EU browser case
</a></li>
   </ul>
   
   <h2>Documents and Publications</h2> 
 
    <ul> 
<li><p><b><a href="/projects/os/ps.en.html">Analysis on balance: Standardisation and Patents</a></b> (2008-12-02)<br /> 
      Following up on the "<a href="http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/newsroom/cf/itemshortdetail.cfm?item_id=3371">IPR in ICT Standardisation</a>" Workshop two weeks ago in Brussels, FSFE president <a href="/people/greve/">Georg Greve</a> analysed the conflicts between patents and standards. The resulting is paper about the most harmful effects of patents on standards, the effectiveness of current remedies, and potential future remedies.
    </p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/documents/eur5greve.en.html">Free Software in Europe - European perspectives and work of the FSF
      Europe</a></b> (2003-05-20)<br /> 
      An article explaining the large-scale beneficial aspects of Free Software
      in multiple areas and how Europe and the European countries can benefit
      from Free Software.
      (<a href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/pdf/europe/spring2003/EU5%20Georg%20Gree%20ATL-replace.pdf">Published</a> 
      in the
      <a href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/spring2003/eu_spring2003_contents.asp">Spring 2003</a> 
      issue of the
      <a href="http://www.publicservice.co.uk/europe/europe_intro.shtml">Public Service Review - European Union</a> 
      with a foreword by Romano Prodi)
    </p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/projects/fp6/lafis.en.html">FP6 EOI: LAFIS - LAying the Foundations for the Information
      Society</a></b> (2002-06-04)<br /></p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/projects/fp6/focal.en.html">FP6 EOI: FOCAL - FOcussing Competence for Advantages of
      Liberty</a></b> (2002-06-04)<br /></p></li> 
<li><p><b><a href="/projects/fp6/recommendation.en.html">Recommendation by the FSFE and supporting parties</a></b> (2002-04-30)<br /> 
      for the <a href="/projects/fp6/fp6.en.html">6th framework programme</a> 
    </p></li> 
</ul> 

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-01-14 14:08:10 +0100 (jeu. 14 janv. 2010) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
