<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
    <title>FSF France - Press review : collect articles about Free Software</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	Anglais | <a href="collecte.fr.html">Français</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />

      <blockquote>

<center>
<h2>FSF France - Press review : collect articles about Free Software</h2>
</center>

	<b>Contribution to collect articles about Free Software.</b>
<p>What we are looking for are articles that say something new ; go into
great depth about an aspect; consider the wider social or legal meanings ;
give a good overview of the subject ; talk about the history in depth ;
or other well-written pieces.
Something that is just so-so or just says the same-old-thing would not
really contribute to our collection.</p>

<menu>
<b>1. Collect articles</b>
	<p>Remember that what we are looking for are good articles. We don't 
	need trivial or superficial articles. First, read the article, and rate the 
	quality from 1 (bad) to 5 (very good). If you rate 4 or 5, only then you 
	can really collect this article in this way :</p>
   <p>
   <li>Cut the pages of the newspaper, magazine related to Free Software</li>
   <li>Cut the cover</li>
   <li>Cut the part of the magazine that lists the address, name of the
      publication, contacts for editorial enquiries (ours in french)</li>
   </p>
   <p>(Replace with copies if you cannot cut)</p>
</menu>
<menu>
<b>2. Describe each article</b>

   <p>Write a four lines summary including :</p>

      <p>
      <li>Date of publication</li>
      <li>A short description of the content of the article in english</li>
      <li>A rating of the quality of the article (1 - 5)</li>
      <li>A rating of the general quality of the newspaper, magazine</li>
      </p>
</menu>
<menu>
<b>3. Wrap and send</b>
   <p>
   <li>Wrap all these things in a plastic cover, one per article</li>
   <li>Give the  plastics covers to Nicole Ciry when you get a change to meet her, or send them by ground mail. Nicole will give you her address if you 
get in touch with her at <a href="mailto:nciry@april.org">nciry@april.org</a></li>
   </p>
</menu>
  <p> Nicole will send every month or every two months what has been
   collected to the FSF for archival.</p>

<p>Thanks for your contribution.</p>


<p>If you wish to participate, join us on the working mailing list :
<a
href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-france-pr">fsfe-france-pr@gnu.org</a>.</p>

      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Mis à jour:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
