<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html external="true">
  <version>0</version>

  <head>
    <title>Website status</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Status Overview</h1>
    <h2>Service Status</h2>
    <div class="incidentstatus">
      <div class="incident">
        <dl>
          <dt class="service">Network problems in one datacenter (<span class="since">2025-12-07</span>, updated: 2025-12-10)</dt>
          <dd class="description">
            At one datacenter of our server locations we experience network problems after they did some maintenance work on Sunday Dec. 7th. Services located in the DC include email, email lists, Nextcloud, git, XMPP. The DC support is looking into the problem.<br />
            <strong>Update (2025-12-09)</strong>: Functionality for IMAP and Nextcloud services have been patched. Mailingslist delivery queue has reduced to normal values, delivery of emails should be as usual.<br />
            <strong>Update (2025-12-10)</strong>: Functionality for XMPP has been patched.
          </dd>
        </dl>
        <dl>
          <dt class="service">planet.fsfe.org (<span class="since">2025-09-01</span>)</dt>
          <dd class="description">The blog aggregator is currently not available. Reasons are being investigated.</dd>
        </dl>
        <dl>
          <dt class="service">wiki.fsfe.org (<span class="since">2025-05-30</span>)</dt>
          <dd class="description">After a DDoS to the service we temporarily forbit some event listings.</dd>
        </dl>
        <dl>
          <dt class="service">git.fsfe.org (<span class="since">2025-03-14</span>, updated: 2025-08-21)</dt>
          <dd class="description">We have deployed anubis in front of the git service. Depending on the development of AI DDoS you may be redirected to the login page to access certain functionality or pages/files.</dd>
        </dl>
        <dl>
          <dt class="service">Mailinglist (updated: 2025-06-07)</dt>
          <dd class="description">
      The mailing lists are fully operational again, including the
      web interface. </dd>
        </dl>
      </div>
    </div>
    <p>If you have problems with services offered by the FSFE please send an email to <email>techsupport@fsfe.org</email> to open a ticket.</p>

    <h2>Website status</h2>
    <p>The following status information is available:</p>
    <h2>Builds</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="https://drone.fsfe.org/FSFE/fsfe-website">Builds of the website</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Translations</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="translations/">Translation status</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Files with mismatched xml structure</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="xml_structure/">XML structure status</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <h2>CSS Style Attributes</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <a href="style_attributes/">CSS Style Attribute status</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>

</html>
