<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
<meta name="author-name-1" content="Georg C.F. Greve"/>
<meta name="author-link-1" content="/about/people/greve/greve.html"/>
<meta name="publication-date" content="2005-07-21"/>
    <title>FSF Europe - Observing WIPO - Statement at the IIM on a Development Agenda, 21 July 2005</title>
  </head>

  <body>

<p align="center">
[ <a href="statement-20050721.en.pdf">PDF Version (62k)</a> ]
</p>

    <p id="category">
      <a href="/activities/un/">United Nations</a> / <a href="/activities/wipo/">WIPO</a>
    </p>
<h1>STATEMENT BY THE UNITED NATIONS WORLD SUMMIT ON THE INFORMATION SOCIETY (WSIS) 
PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS (PCT)  WORKING GROUP OF CIVIL SOCIETY</h1>
<h4>
INTER-SESSIONAL, INTER-GOVERNMENTAL
MEETING ON A
DEVELOPMENT AGENDA FOR WIPO (Geneva, 20-22 July 2005)</h4>

<!--<p id="introduction"> Summary: </p>-->


<p>The WSIS Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks Working Group of Civil
 Society participated in the World Summit on the Information Society
 in its first and second phase, addressing many issues of knowledge
 control, software and the internet.</p>

<p>During the first summit in Geneva, we witnessed how the member
 states
 of the United Nations formally agreed that knowledge dissemination and
 sharing are fundamental building blocks of a knowledge society. Quoting
 article 42 of the Declaration of Principles:</p>

<p div="indent"><em>``Intellectual Property protection is important to encourage
    innovation and creativity in the Information Society; similarly,
    the wide dissemination, diffusion, and sharing of knowledge is
    important to encourage innovation and creativity. Facilitating
    meaningful participation by all in intellectual property issues
    and knowledge sharing through full awareness and capacity building
    is a fundamental part of an inclusive Information Society.''</em></p>

<p>It is in this spirit that we see the Development Agenda proposed by the
 Friends of Development: patents, copyrights and trademarks are designed
 to limit access and knowledge sharing. If applied wisely and with
 measure, they can foster creativity and innovation. If applied
 carelessly, they can kill both along with their potential benefit for
 society: progress. This holds true for any nation in this world, rich
 or poor, north or south.</p>

<p>The Friends of Development propose within their Development Agenda to
 apply benchmarks to WIPO's policies and treaties in order to maximise
 their benefit for all of humankind, including, but not limited to,
 the developing nations.</p>

<p>The PCT Working Group strongly supports the proposal made by the
 Friends of Development for a Development Agenda, from which we expect
 positive consequences for the implementation of the WSIS plan of
 action.</p>

<p>Furthermore, we wish to share some of the points that were important
 for the debate during the World Summit on the Information Society and
 that we feel will add substance to the Development Agenda proposal.</p>

<p>As the global civil society represented at the WSIS stated in its
 essential principles of 14. November 2003: <em>``Human knowledge,
 including the knowledge of all peoples and communities, also those
 who are remote and excluded, is the heritage of all humankind and the
 reservoir from which new knowledge is created.''</em></p>

<p>In the past years, we have witnessed an ongoing expansion of the
 duration of copyright, and thus the timespan during which that
 reservoir remains subject to limited access. At the same time, the
 barriers to access have been raised by means of anti-circumvention
 policies and approaches to put violations under criminal law.</p>

<p>In the information society, knowledge is circulating and outdated
 faster, not slower: to adapt to that fact, the duration of copyright
 should be shortened considerably. For this we would also like to focus
 your attention on the WSIS Declaration of Principles, article 26:</p>

<p div="indent"><em> ``A rich public domain is an essential element
for the growth of the Information Society, creating multiple benefits
such as an educated public, new jobs, innovation, business
opportunities, and the advancement of sciences.''</em>
</p>

<p>The internet has not only paved the way for the knowledge age, it
 also represents the latest seminal innovative step of humankind. It
 was made at a time when the barriers to access were much lower. A
 comparable breakthrough might be made impossible by these increased
 barriers: we should reconsider these barriers to make sure we do not
 disable the next breakthrough; this in particular refers to the
 anti-circumvention provisions and approaches at criminalising
 copyright violations, but is not limited to them.</p>

<p>Patents are another area in need of review that we identified
 throughout the WSIS: they can be an excellent tool to promote
 innovation, but their effects differ between areas.</p>

<p>Scientific studies for instance show that software is an area in
 which patents are harmful: they stifle innovation and pose a
 significant threat to competition; evidence for this has been
 collected by several renowned institutions, including the
 <a href="http://www.researchoninnovation.org/patent.pdf">Massachussetts Institute of Technology (MIT)</a>, the <a href="http://www.researchoninnovation.org/swpat.pdf">Boston University
 School of Law</a>, <a href="http://www.pwc.com/Extweb/pwcpublications.nsf/docid/EC6DE73A846581CE80256EFD002E41FB">Price Waterhouse Coopers</a>, <a href="http://www.ftc.gov/os/2003/10/innovationrpt.pdf">US Federal Trade Commission</a>
 and <a href="http://www.dbresearch.com/PROD/DBR_INTERNET_EN-PROD/PROD0000000000175949.pdf">Deutsche Bank Research</a>.</p>

<p>Similar effects may exist in other areas and can serve to undermine
 the patent system overall. We therefore encourage the Member States
 to start a dialog with the goal of establishing clear and binding
 ruleset to limit the scope of the patent system. These should take
 into account the full diversity of areas and ensure the stability and
 functioning of the patent system as a tool for innovation.</p>

<p>Given the scope and significance of these issues, only few of them
 can be adequately dealt with on committee level. Mainstreaming the
 development dimension into all of WIPO's activities requires the
 continuation of the overarching IIM process.</p>

<p> We sincerely hope that progress, wisdom, courage and global vision
 shall prevail in this necessary debate.</p>

<p>

UN World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)
<ul>
<li>Civil Society Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks (PCT) Working Group, Co-Coordinator</li>
<li>First phase Civil Society representative, German Governmental Delegation</li>
<li>European Caucus, Coordinator</li>
</ul>
</p>

<h3>More information</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.wsis-pct.org">WSIS PCT Working Group</a></li>
<li><a href="/campaigns/wsis/">World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS)</a></li>
<li><a href="/campaigns/swpat/">Software Patents in Europe</a></li>
</ul>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
