<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
    <title>EUCD.INFO - Au secours de la copie privée - situation</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->

      <h1>Status of the national law application of the EUCD (Directive 2001/29/CE).</h1>
<p>
The dead line is December 2002.
</p>
<p>
Here is a summary for earch country of the current status and action. Feel free to update it.
(it's a wiki)
</p>
<h4>

 Austria
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong>PROJECT LAW</strong>
                  <a href="http://www.justiz.gv.at/gesetzes/download/urheberrecht2002.pdf" class="rawurl">http://www.justiz.gv.at/gesetzes/download/urheberrecht2002.pdf</a> or as a
                  inofficial html transcript at <a href="http://www.vibe.at/misc/UrhG-Nov2002.html" class="rawurl">http://www.vibe.at/misc/UrhG-Nov2002.html</a>
                  almost forced through by the government, but stopped in the last minute
                  and deferred due to new election. Further progress might depend on the
                  new government members.
                  comments to the legislator from interested parties on above mentioned bill
                  at <a href="http://www.parlinkom.gv.at/pd/pm/XXI/ME/his/003/ME00363_.html" class="rawurl">http://www.parlinkom.gv.at/pd/pm/XXI/ME/his/003/ME00363_.html</a>

  * Action done : - set up of a dedicated mailing list to discuss the Austrian branch of EUCD
                  - officially protest against the draft
                    <a href="http://ffs.or.at/artikel/urhnov2002/urhnov2002.pdf" class="rawurl">http://ffs.or.at/artikel/urhnov2002/urhnov2002.pdf</a>
                  - wrote text explaining the issues to legal non-experts
                    <a href="http://ffs.or.at/artikel/urheberrecht.pdf" class="rawurl">http://ffs.or.at/artikel/urheberrecht.pdf</a>
                  - related conference on "Intellectual Property of Digital Processes"
                    held at University of Vienna on November 8-10, 2002
                    <a href="http://metameta.org/gekonf/index.en.html" class="rawurl">http://metameta.org/gekonf/index.en.html</a>
  * Action to be done :  keep an eye open on further progress, contact new Minister of Justice
  * Local contact : <strong>subscribe</strong> to <strong>eucd.at@</strong>vibe.at the comprehensive open mailing list
                  via e-mail <a href="mailto:ecartis@vibe.at&#63;body=subscribe%20eucd.at" class="rawurl">mailto:ecartis@vibe.at&#63;body=subscribe%20eucd.at</a>

                  or use the webinterface <a href="https://www.vibe.at/cgi-bin/ecartis.cgi" class="rawurl">https://www.vibe.at/cgi-bin/ecartis.cgi</a>
</pre>
<h4>
 Belgium
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong>PROJECT LAW</strong> (in revision "à la chambre")
                  ref:<a href="http://www.ael.be/action/2002/eucd/projet-de-loi-belge/wetsontwerp-BIL.pdf" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/action/2002/eucd/projet-de-loi-belge/wetsontwerp-BIL.pdf</a> (initial project LAW)
                  ref: <a href="http://www.ael.be/docs/eucd/704-4.pdf" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/docs/eucd/704-4.pdf</a> (updated project)
  * Action done : - 01/01/2002 A letter was sent to the Belgian Prime Minister before the project law
                  ref:<a href="http://www.ael.be/action/2002/eucd/lettre-eucd.html" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/action/2002/eucd/lettre-eucd.html</a>

                  - 02/04/2002 A letter was sent to the Belgian Minister of Justice after the initial project law
                  ref:<a href="http://www.ael.be/action/2002/eucd/projet-de-loi-belge/lettre-eucd-projetdeloi.html" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/action/2002/eucd/projet-de-loi-belge/lettre-eucd-projetdeloi.html</a>
  * Action to be done : - Contact of multiple parties around the EUCD in Belgium (in progress)
                        - Build a proposal to add exception to the current project law (Free Software, Education,Archive)
  * Local contact : ASBL AEL <a href="mailto:activists@ael.be" class="rawurl">mailto:activists@ael.be</a> / <a href="http://www.ael.be/" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/</a>
  * Petition      : <a href="http://www.ael.be/cgi-bin/webpetition.pl" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/cgi-bin/webpetition.pl</a> Petition against the implementation of the EUCD in Belgium
</pre>

<h4>
 Denmark
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <a href="http://www.ft.dk/Samling/20021/lovforslag_oversigtsformat/L19.htm" class="namedurl">Law</a> passed in parliament (Folketinget)
</pre>
<pre>
  * Actions done: Met with some politicians, participated in government hearing, media coverage on radio,
                  in one paper, and several online media,
                  written several questions to the responsible minister
                  - answers has disappointingly been avoiding essential problems.
  * Actions active: <a href="http://www.digitalforbruger.dk/underskriftsindsamling/index_html" class="namedurl">Petition with &gt;5600 signatures</a>
  * Actions to be done: The fight continues!
                        We will think long term.
  * Results: Some political awareness about the potential problems.A revision has been made to
    allow cryptology research, but some other good revisions have been struck down. Paragraphs on
   "technological measures" will be reviewed no later than 2005-06
  * Final results: The law was passed by a large majority. :( No
       further revisions. Generally the worst law you could imagine. Only
       one party fully understood the consequences and got all the
       important points written into the official documentation. (good for
       "I told you so"). The democratic process was questionable.
  * Local contact: <a href="http://www.digitalforbruger.dk" class="namedurl">Initiative for Digital Consumer Rights</a> <a href="mailto:komite@digitalforbruger.dk" class="rawurl">mailto:komite@digitalforbruger.dk</a>

</pre>
<h4>
 Finland
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      Final draft and explonation-memorandum of the law is sent to the parliament
                  ref:<a href="http://www.eduskunta.fi/triphome/bin/utaveps.scr&#63;%7BKEY%7D=HE+177%2F2002" class="rawurl">http://www.eduskunta.fi/triphome/bin/utaveps.scr&#63;%7BKEY%7D=HE+177%2F2002</a>
  * Local contact : Electonic Frontier Finland ref:<a href="http://www.effi.org" class="rawurl">http://www.effi.org</a>
</pre>
<pre>
  * Action done : - 09/15/2001 EFFi participated to the first hearing session
                  - 02/04/2002 The chairman of EFFi in a seminar about EUCD
                  ref:<a href="http://www.effi.org/puhe_220102.ppt" class="rawurl">http://www.effi.org/puhe_220102.ppt</a>

                  - 05/03/2002 A press statement about the draft law:
                  ref:<a href="http://www.effi.org/lehdistotiedote_030502.html" class="rawurl">http://www.effi.org/lehdistotiedote_030502.html</a>
                  - 06/14/2002 EFFi participated in the hearing process by
                  submitting a written response on the draft law to the Ministry
                  of Culture in a chilling athmosphere:
                  ref:<a href="http://www.effi.org/lehdistotiedote_170602.html" class="rawurl">http://www.effi.org/lehdistotiedote_170602.html</a>
                  - 09/14/2002 EFFi has succeeded to create media attention on the issue.
                  Main newspapers, radio and even TV have covered the law proposal.
                  - 10/11/2002 EFFi's press statement about the the final draft:
                  ref:<a href="http://www.effi.org/lehdistotiedote-2002-10-11.html" class="rawurl">http://www.effi.org/lehdistotiedote-2002-10-11.html</a>
                  "Some positive changes but bad in general"
</pre>
<h4>

 France
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong>INITIAL PROJECT LAW</strong>
                  The ministry of culture is in charge of the translation
</pre>
<pre>
  * Law project : <a href="http://www.planetelibre.org/main.php&#63;type=news" class="rawurl">http://www.planetelibre.org/main.php&#63;type=news</a>
</pre>

<pre>
  * Pressbook : <a href="http://www.planetelibre.net/article/index.php&#63;article=CSPLA" class="rawurl">http://www.planetelibre.net/article/index.php&#63;article=CSPLA</a>
</pre>
<pre>
  * Documents : Oct 2001, CSPLA discuss action on the directive. They are expecting the project from
                the ministry of culture. Claims that professionals will be consulted by the ministry
                essentially thru the CSPLA itself. It analyses what should be translated (page 11, 12).
                It mentions that 5.1 (transmission and usage reproduction exceptions will need to be
                translated, without further explanations, presumably to modify CPI L122-6).
                <a href="http://www.culture.fr/culture/cspla/cr41001.pdf" class="rawurl">http://www.culture.fr/culture/cspla/cr41001.pdf</a>
</pre>
<pre>
                Dec 2001, CSPLA recommendations on the translation. 5.1 should be translated as-is (page 12).
                Protection mesures (page 13): it includes an important statement that says "identifiant les actes illicites, l'acte de contournement par toute personne des lors que le comportement litigieux est intentionnel" that should be stressed as much as possible to avoid a translation that opens the way to trial on the mere basis of the fact that a "mesure de contournement" exists. It is also added that private copy must be possible and that the author (or editor) does not prevent this by technical mesures. That is another idea to prevent a harmful translation. It also stresses the fact that the directive leaves room for purely contractual regulation for "on demand" publication (e-book for one).
                <a href="http://www.culture.fr/culture/cspla/corendu201201.pdf" class="rawurl">http://www.culture.fr/culture/cspla/corendu201201.pdf</a>

</pre>
<pre>
                More recent reports do not show any indication of more precise works. In particular there
                are no suggested translation for the protection of technical measures.
</pre>
<pre>
  * CSPLA News : <a href="http://www.culture.fr/culture/cspla/comptes.htm" class="rawurl">http://www.culture.fr/culture/cspla/comptes.htm</a>
</pre>
<pre>
  * Ministere de la culture : <a href="http://www.droitsdauteur.culture.gouv.fr/" class="rawurl">http://www.droitsdauteur.culture.gouv.fr/</a>
</pre>

<pre>
  * Report that may be in favor of a less protective law: <a href="http://www.videomuseum.fr/magnt/magnt4/713-lecm.htm" class="rawurl">http://www.videomuseum.fr/magnt/magnt4/713-lecm.htm</a>
</pre>
<pre>
  * Local contact : APRIL loic@gnu.org
</pre>
<pre>
  * Agenda : Dec 5, 2002 the CSPLA will work on the project law.
</pre>
<pre>
             Dec 22, 2002 the dead line. It may be met. We cannot expect that the tranlation will take 5 years,
             there is enormous pressure.

</pre>
<h4>
 Germany
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong> (SEEMS TO BE) AN INITIAL PROJECT LAW </strong>  (we need confirmation)
                  ref:<a href="http://www.urheberrecht.org/topic/MultiMediaRiLi/RefEntw_Infoges_18_3_02.pdf" class="rawurl">http://www.urheberrecht.org/topic/MultiMediaRiLi/RefEntw_Infoges_18_3_02.pdf</a>
                  Online petition at ref:<a href="http://www.privatkopie.net" class="rawurl">http://www.privatkopie.net</a>

</pre>
<h4>
 Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong>INITIAL PROJECT LAW</strong>
  * Action done : - 03/04/2002 Initial contact to Mr. Allegreza (responsible of author rights in the minister of economy)
  * Action to be done : - Comment on the project law when available
  * Local contact : ASBL AEL <a href="mailto:activists@ael.be" class="rawurl">mailto:activists@ael.be</a> / <a href="http://www.ael.be/" class="rawurl">http://www.ael.be/</a>
</pre>

<h4>
 Holland / The Netherlands
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong> UNKNOWN </strong> (it is supposed to be with the "Raad van State"
                  ref:<a href="http://www.justitie.nl/themas/wetgeving/dossiers/auteursrecht/concept_wetsvoorstel/wetsvoorstel.asp" class="rawurl">http://www.justitie.nl/themas/wetgeving/dossiers/auteursrecht/concept_wetsvoorstel/wetsvoorstel.asp</a>
  * Local contact : ref:<a href="http://www.xs4all.nl/~phulshof/copyright" class="rawurl">http://www.xs4all.nl/~phulshof/copyright</a> / <a href="http://www.vosn.nl/" class="rawurl">http://www.vosn.nl/</a>

</pre>
<h4>
 Italy
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      A law proposal has been silently produced in July, and it has gained public attention in these days.
                  More information coming soon. <em>(last update: August 28th, 2002)</em>
  * Local contact : Associazione Software Libero <a href="mailto:info@softwarelibero.it" class="rawurl">mailto:info@softwarelibero.it</a> / <a href="http://www.softwarelibero.it/" class="rawurl">http://www.softwarelibero.it/</a>
</pre>

<h4>
 Norway
</h4><pre>
  * <strong>Note:</strong> Norway is <strong>not</strong> an EU member state, thus the EUDC does <strong>not</strong> officially apply it (nor its deadline).
</pre><p>
<br />

</p><pre>
  * Status :      Draft legislation expected soon. Will be available <a href="http://odin.dep.no/kkd/norsk/aktuelt/hoeringssaker/index-b-n-a.html" class="namedurl">here</a>
  * Action done : - EFN has initiated contact with the Norwegian Department of Culture.
  * Action to be done : - Currently waiting for draft legislation, highly unlikely that the law will be ready before Dec2002.
  * Local contact : Electronic Frontier Norway  <a href="http://www.efn.no" class="rawurl">http://www.efn.no</a>
</pre>
<h4>
 Portugal
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      GDA has published the law project (in portuguese).
                  Project <a href="http://www.gda.pt/downloads/Projecto%20de%20Decreto%20Lei.doc" class="rawurl">http://www.gda.pt/downloads/Projecto%20de%20Decreto%20Lei.doc</a>

                  Background <a href="http://www.gda.pt/downloads/Nota%20justificativa.doc" class="rawurl">http://www.gda.pt/downloads/Nota%20justificativa.doc</a>
                  Non-official HTML versions:
                  Project <a href="http://www.ansol.org/politica/eucd-texto.pt.html" class="rawurl">http://www.ansol.org/politica/eucd-texto.pt.html</a>
                  Background <a href="http://www.ansol.org/politica/eucd-justificacao.pt.html" class="rawurl">http://www.ansol.org/politica/eucd-justificacao.pt.html</a>
                  Consultation process ends December, 10th
</pre>
<pre>
                  Under a special legislative authorization this law project does not need to go through the parliament.

</pre>
<pre>
  * Action done : - There have been meetings with responsibles from the new government about EUCD and other issues.
                  - There has been a request for information to the entity responsible for copyright
                  law in Portugal (Gabinete de Direitos de Autor) in April 28, 2002. They replied in
                  November 20, 2002 saying that they only deal with "institutional partners" and
                  "rights managements associations".
</pre>
<pre>
  * Action to be done : - Write a comment on the law project.
  * Local contact : ANSOL <a href="mailto:direccao@ansol.org" class="rawurl">mailto:direccao@ansol.org</a> / <a href="http://www.ansol.org/" class="rawurl">http://www.ansol.org/</a>
</pre>
<h4>
 Spain

</h4><pre>
  * Status :      <strong>UNKNOWN</strong>: maybe will be applied as an patch to the proposed law LSSI
  * Action done : - The concern exists. It has been integrated as one more task inside a
                    Innovation Defense action group Proinnova (of Hispalinux)
  * Action to be done : - It will be discussed with the goverment and political groups,
                          hopefully during June 2002, by proinnova representatives.
</pre>
<pre>
  * Local contact : (this info by) <a href="mailto:eneko.lacunza@hispalinux.es" class="namedurl">Eneko Lacunza</a>
                    (proinnova task froce leader) <a href="mailto:jgb@gsyc.escet.urjc.es" class="namedurl">Jesus M. Gonzalez-Barahona</a>
                    <a href="http://listas.hispalinux.es/mailman/listinfo/proinnova" class="namedurl">proinnova mailing list, in spanish</a>

                    <a href="http://proinnova.hispalinux.es" class="namedurl">proinnova website</a>
</pre>
<h4>
 Sweden
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      The Government will write a preposition -- date unknown -- which will be available <a href="http://www.riksdagen.se/debatt/propositioner/index.asp" class="namedurl">here</a>.
  * Directive:    Available as <a href="http://www.europa.eu.int/servlet/portail/RenderServlet&#63;search=DocNumber&amp;lg=sv&amp;nb_docs=25&amp;domain=Legislation&amp;coll=&amp;in_force=NO&amp;an_doc=2001&amp;nu_doc=29&amp;type_doc=Directive" class="namedurl">HTML and PDF</a>
  * Action done :
  * Action to be done :
  * Help : If you need help locating documents, you can ask the official <a href="mailto:eu.upplysningen@riksdagen.se" class="namedurl">&quot;EU upplysningen&quot;</a>

</pre>
<h4>
 UK
</h4><pre>
  * Status :      The Patent Office's Copyright Directorate has now released draft implementing legislation.
                  See <a href="http://uk.eurorights.org/issues/eucd/ukimpl/" class="rawurl">http://uk.eurorights.org/issues/eucd/ukimpl/</a> for CDR's analysis and a link
                  (we have to contact uk.eurorights.org). A recent progress report at
                  <a href="http://www.patent.gov.uk/copy/notices/report.htm" class="rawurl">http://www.patent.gov.uk/copy/notices/report.htm</a> indicates that implementation will
                  not be finished before deadline.
  * Action done :
  * Action to be done :
  * Local contact : Campaign for Digital Rights <a href="http://uk.eurorights.org/" class="rawurl">http://uk.eurorights.org/</a>
</pre>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> 


  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
