$Id: protocol.en.txt 705 2003-05-07 12:36:33Z wk $

2nd General Assembly of the Free Software Foundation Europe
===========================================================

15:57 Opening by the Chairman

By invitation sent out on April 5, 2002 we have come together to the
General Assembly at Paris on Saturday May 25, 2002.

Present are:
  Stefano
  Werner [protocol editor]
  Jonas
  Georg  [chairman]
  Bernhard
  Raphael
  Frédéric
  Peter  [protocol]

Not present are:
  Loic Dachary (has resigned during the last year; not a member anymore)
  Alessandro, represented by Stefano by written statement
  Cristopher Gabriel, represented by Stefano by written statement


Agenda
 1. Are we resolutionable?
 2. Acceptance of Protocol
 3. Membership of Stef
 4. Membership of Chris
 5. Report by Executive Commitee
 6. Report by Head of Office

No addendums have been requested; the agenda was accepted.

1. Are we resolutionable?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Invitation was in time, enough people are present
--> We are resolutionable

2. Protocol of the 1st GA in Essen
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Read by the Chairman
6 yes, 0 no, 4 abst --> accepted

3. Membership of Stef
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8 yes, 0 no --> accepted; applause

4. Membership of Chris
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8 yes, 0 no --> accepted; applause

5. Report by Executive Commitee
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Recent activities: 

During the last year, a solid basis was created.  Associate
organisations orgaisations do exist.  Conclusion: FSFE is important

AGNULA: First EU project; may become very useful for Free Software
movement; FSFE will get the copyright assigned

FP6: Many people got aware of us. We need more participants who send
mails (expressions of interest) by themselves that they want to be in
FP6.  Nicola Girardini will speak in Bruxelles.  (FP6 must be accepted
by the EUC.  We want to submit FP6 projects, thus we have sent an
expression of interest now.)  This will give significant money for
Free Software (EUC funds by size: The funding will be in a size order
an organisation can usually handle.)

(*$if false *)
Werner: How is this size measured?
Georg: They want a balance.
For AGNULA we do not yet have one (1st year).
(*$endif *)

French Chapter has been officially approved

Italian Chapter is being prepared

We have very good cooperation with IFROSS concerning licensing stuff
We dealt with the Blissenbach case.

We have established good contacts with the German BMWi.  They have
sent Bernhard as a representative of FS to Tokio.

We have been working on a framework document for the ratio 
FSFE <--> FSF-NA.

We participated in several conferences and workshops

[*Begin notes collected from other attendees]
GPL translation can possibly be funded by German BMWi

GPL V3: We want to be involved!

Framework document: We are playing according to these rules, and so
should the FSF-NA do.

We have sereral people who want to assign copyright to FSFE, but not
to FSF-NA. That's something we "have to offer".

We need better communication, for instance: better web pages.

GNU Business Network.

International Copyright Assignment := Exclusive Exploitation Rights

Europe: There is a natural right of the author to live of his work
USA: There is copyright which can be transferred

BSI: There is a chance that it becomes part of their standard for
software development to transfer copyright to the FSFE

The Blissenbach case went wrong (neutral) because the FSF-NA did not
confirm in time that we are their representatives.

Georg and Bernhard have been invited to the conference of
professional "Linux corporations"

Eben Moglen wants to give us the power to deal with
copyright/license issues in Europe
[End notes collected from other attendees]

[Short discussions took place durcin the report]

6. Report by Head of Office
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

pre-given reimbursement from the EU should not be part of the FSFE's
income.

[There was no real financial report accept for the current account
 balances.  Discussion about the requirement of a financial report and
 how to improve the situation took place.]

As demanded, by Werner and Frédéric and agreed by everyone, a
balance will be submitted to the FSFE team until the end of
September



17:05 Closed by the Chairman


[protocol edited and commited to CVS on 2003-05-07 using notes taken
by Peter.  Editor remarks are enclosed in square brackets.]
