<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Towards a "World Intellectual Wealth Organisation"</title>
  </head>

  <body>

    <p class="tagline">Towards a</p>

    <h1>“World Intellectual Wealth Organisation”</h1>

    <h2>Supporting the Geneva Declaration</h2>

    <p>
      The <a
        href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
        Declaration</a> is an impressive step towards the creation of a broad
      coalition of people, organisations and countries<a href="#fn1"
      class="fn">1</a> demanding that the international community re-think the
      goals and mechanisms for awarding monopoly control over different kinds of
      knowledge. It offers many constructive, concrete suggestions for changes
      in WIPO goals, policies and priorities, and provides ample and insightful
      arguments for redesign of the copyright and patent bargains to better
      serve the public interest of all of humankind.
    </p>

    <p>
      We are convinced that new answers sometimes require new questions,
      not more careful repetition of old questions. A World Intellectual
      Property Organisation will always, understandably, lean towards
      applying the pre-selected tool-set of monopolisation that it
      refers to as Intellectual Property; a term that we find to be
      ideologically charged and dangerously oblivious to the significant
      differences that exist between the many areas of law that it tries
      to subsume.
    </p>

    <p>
      While it may look at better, possibly more socially sustainable
      ways of granting ownership-like monopolies over different forms of
      knowledge, WIPO will not have an easy time looking for alternative
      solutions. WIPO is not what we need.
    </p>

    <p>
      We need a World Intellectual Wealth Organisation, dedicated to the
      research and promotion of novel and imaginative ways to encourage
      the production and dissemination of knowledge. Granting limited
      monopolies and limited control over some kinds of knowledge may be
      part of this new organisation's tool-set, but not the only one,
      and maybe not even the most important one.
    </p>

    <p>
      We endorse and support the <a
        href="http://www.cptech.org/ip/wipo/genevadeclaration.html">Geneva
        Declaration</a>, and invite its drafters, signatories, and the
      United Nations to start thinking now not only about what the role
      of WIPO should be, but rather what kind of organisation we need in
      its place.
    </p>


    <h2 id="fn">References</h2>

    <ol>
      <li id="fn1">
        Proposal by Argentina and Brazil for the establishment of a
        development agenda for WIPO: <a
          href="http://www.wipo.int/edocs/mdocs/govbody/en/wo_ga_31/wo_ga_31_11.pdf">http://www.wipo.int/edocs/mdocs/govbody/en/wo_ga_31/wo_ga_31_11.pdf</a>
      </li>
    </ol>


    <h2>Signatories</h2>
    
    <signatories/>
    
    <p>
      If you wish to see your name or the name of your organisation
      added to this list, please contact <a
        href="mailto:web@lists.fsfe.org">web@lists.fsfe.org</a>.
     </p>
     
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
