<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2018-07-16">
<head>
  <title>FSFE is hiring: project manager</title>
</head>
<body>

  <h1>
    FSFE is hiring: Fundraising Manager
  </h1>

  <p newsteaser="yes">We are looking for a Fundraising Manager to support our work to empower people to control technology. The person will work 35 hours per week with our team in the Berlin office, being in charge of the FSFE's individual and corporate fundraising.</p>
  
  <h2 id="aboutthefsfe">About the FSFE</h2>

  <p>Free Software Foundation Europe is a charity that empowers users to
  control technology. Software is deeply involved in all aspects of our
  lives; and it is important that this technology empowers rather than
  restricts us. Free Software gives everybody the rights to use,
  understand, adapt and share software. These rights help support other
  fundamental freedoms like freedom of speech, press and privacy.</p>

  <p>The FSFE helps individuals and organisations to understand how Free
  Software contributes to freedom, transparency, and self-determination.
  It enhances users' rights by abolishing barriers to Free Software
  adoption, encourages people to use and develop Free Software, and
  provides resources to enable everyone to further promote Free Software
  in Europe.</p>

  <p>We are involved in legal, economic, political, and technical
  projects around Free Software (see <a
  href="/work.html">our work areas</a> and <a
  href="/campaigns/campaigns.html">our
  campaigns</a>).</p>
  
  <p>Our work is made possible by a community of volunteers, supporters and donors. To make this community more sustainable, we are looking for a Fundraising Manager to help us sustainably grow the FSFE's supporter base and increase our grants and donations. The Fundraising Manager will develop, adjust, and implement fundraising strategies and goals in close cooperation with our team of employees and volunteers.</p>

  <h2 id="mainresponsibilities">Main responsibilities</h2>
  
  <ul>
    <li>Constant development, adjustment, and implementation of fundraising strategies and goals.</li>
    <li>Coordination of fundraising campaigns.</li>
    <li>Independent identification of fundraising opportunities, as well as establishing and taking care of networks and contacts.</li>
    <li>Monitor grant opportunities and write applications.</li>
    <li>Content-related development, analysis, and maintenance of databases.</li>
    <li>Update and modify websites, promo material, and the FSFE's public appearance, in order to match with fundraising goals.</li>
    <li>Handle finances for EU projects and other project grants.</li>
    <li>Financial responsibilities for and controlling of fundraising related processes.</li>
    <li>Update of transparency pages and other reporting about funds.</li>
  </ul>
  
  <h2 id="qualifications">Qualifications</h2>
  
  <ul>
    <li>Work experience with fundraising for non-profit charities in the field of individual and corporate donors and grant management.</li>
    <li>Knowledge and experience in understanding the financial side of the charitable non-profit sector.</li>
    <li>Basic knowledge about accounting and controlling.</li>
    <li>Very reliable and well-organised.</li>
    <li>Data analysis skills.</li>
    <li>Good communication skills.</li>
    <li>Ablility to understand legal, economic, political, and slightly technical arguments about Free Software, and then being able to lead projects which involve people from those different backgrounds.</li>
    <li>Fluency in written and spoken English; other European languages are considered an asset.</li>
    <li>Being able to work with HTML and CSS to improve website content under version control system, or learn it fast.</li>
    <li>Basic graphic design skills are a nice-to-have.</li>
    <li>Knowledge about how to use a GNU/Linux laptop is a plus.</li>
    <li>Knowledge about the Free Software field and affinity with the FSFE's values and mission. Ability to communicate the FSFE's work towards people and organisations with technical, political, legal, or economic backgrounds, and working together with volunteers.</li>
  </ul>
  
  <h2 id="attitude">Attitude</h2>
  
  <p>We are looking for a reliable and well-organised team player who is passionate about helping to increase the FSFE's budget so we can make the world a better place for further generations. While patiently and discreetly making concrete mid-term improvements, you should work sustainably and keep your long-term focus on the FSFE’s mission.</p>
  
  <h2 id="howtoapply">How to apply</h2>
  
  <p>To apply, please send a maximum one-page cover letter including a salary proposal for a 35 hour week and a maximum two-page CV (only PDFs are accepted) by email to jobs@fsfe.org, with the subject “Fundraising Manager”. Please do not include pictures of yourself in the application.</p>

  <p>Your personal data will be deleted 3 months after we have made our decision. The closing date for applications is <strong>3 February 2019</strong>. Interviews with selected candidates will take place in the beginning of February. The start date for the job will be March 2019. The employment will first last for 14 months.</p>
  
  <p>Free Software is meant to serve everyone regardless of their age,
  ability or disability, gender identity, sex, race, religion, or sexual
  orientation. Hence, we encourage applications from all backgrounds and
  promise to judge all applications on merit, without reference to any of
  the characteristics listed. To promote diversity and equality in the
  Free Software community, we shall give preference to applicants who
  identify as part of a traditionally marginalised demographic in
  technology for applications of equal strength.</p>

</body>
  
 <tags>
  <tag>front-page</tag>
 	<tag content="Internal">internal</tag>
	<tag content="Projects">projects</tag>
	<tag content="Job position">career</tag>
 </tags>
 
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
