<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Education - Argumentation</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
	<a href="argumentation.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
	English |
	<a href="argumentation.fr.html">Français</a> <!--|
        <a href="index.pt.html">Português</a> -->
	]
      </center>

<!-- Begin page content -->
          <div align="center">
          <h2>Why give precedence to Free Software at school?</h2>
          </div>

		  <p>
            Whether they like it or not, teachers make their pupils' 
			parents buy proprietary software if they use it at school. 
			By doing so, they contribute to a money-based selection even though
			free software used at school can be brought home! Free software 
			are "logiciels républicains" ("republican" software):
		  </p>
		  <ul>
		    <li>"Liberté": freedom to use, copy, modify, distribute, get 
			  access to code-source (you can read more about Free Software's
			  essential freedoms on our page <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/documents/freesoftware.html">
			  What is Free Software?</a>)
			</li>
			<li>"Égalité": equality between users, whatever school or family 
		  	  means may be: with free software, a small poorly-funded school 
			  has the same choice as a more affluent or prestigious one
			</li>
			<li>"Fraternité": fraternity, cooperation and mutual aid between 
			  developers and users, between users, between school and family.
			</li>
		  </ul>

		  <p> 
            When appropriate, it is necessary to give students real computing 
			skills, not only proprietary software "directions for use". Consequently, 
			they could get access without restrictions to code-source, modify or 
			adapt it to their own needs, and thus improve the applications they use 
			or develop.
		  </p>

		  <p>
            Free software is particularly performing and secure for communication, 
			a priority at school for Internet access and E-mail... Free Software 
			allows remote servicing, a necessity for its deployment in large
			schools. Free software is impervious to current viruses.
		  </p>

		  <p>
            School has to stay away from consumerism. School needs, and the means they 
			require, have to keep clear from fashion or software industry advertising. 
			Free software gives increased perennity to hardware as it allows a longer 
			use of old (and cheap) hardware, particularly as terminals or "client" 
			computers. Free Software allows software perennity as there is no necessity 
			to buy the last software releases to obtain an (eventual) improvement. 
			Updates can be immediatly developed (so you don't depend on an editor 
			goodwill) and shared with other users worldwide.
		  </p>
		  
		  <p>
		    Knowledge is universal, Free Software too.
		  </p>

          <p>
		    In Education, means are more limited than in other sectors, because they 
			have to be employed on a large scale. It's more relevant to pay grey 
			matter (e.g. help for projects conception, personal and educational training) 
			or extra devices than to pay proprietary licences.
		  </p> 
			
			<p> 
				<a href="http://lsm.abul.org/program/topic14/topic14.php3?langnew=fr">Original
				version</a> by <a href="mailto:jean.peyratout@abul.org">Jean Peyratout</a> 
			</p> 
			
			<p> 
				<a href="index.html">Back to the main page</a> 
			</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
