<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>FSF Europe - Education</title>
	</head>
	<body>

		<div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
			<!-- Begin page content --> 
			<div align="center">
				<h2>Education</h2>
			</div> 
			
			<h3>General</h3> 
			
			<p> The Free Software Foundation Europe actively promotes the
				use of Free Software in schools and universities. Free Software
				is pedagogically and technologically superior to proprietary
				systems. But more importantly, its basic spirit involving freedom and cooperation
				is the same spirit of education in a democratic environment.  
			</p> 
			
			<p>
				We have a more <a href="argumentation.html">detailed argumentation</a>
				which sums up why we think that Free Software
				is the kind of software which should be used in education.
			</p> 
			
			<h3>Associations</h3> 
			
			<p> Please check out the 
				<a href="http://www.gnu.org/education/">pages on education</a>
                            of the GNU Project.
			</p>
			
			<p> There are already some organizations which support and advocate the 
				use of Free Software in education:
			</p>
			
			<ul> 
				<li> The <a href="http://www.ofset.org/">Organization for Free Software 
					in Education and Teaching</a> (OFSET) promotes the development of free software 
					for the educational system and teaching. OFSET is an associated organization of 
					the FSF Europe.  
				</li> 
				<li> The <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/osie">Open Source in Education</a> 
					Project (OSiE) supports and advocates the use of GNU/Linux systems in the UK.  
				</li> 
				<li> The <a href="http://fsub.schule.de/">Freie Software und Bildung e.V.</a> 
					(FSuB e.V., Association for Free Software and Education) promotes the use of GNU/Linux 
					systems in German schools.<br/> 
					Please note that the FSuB e.V. accepts the use of proprietary software on top of 
					free platforms, a position with which we strongly disagree.
				</li> 
			</ul> 
			
			<h3>Contact</h3> 
			
			<p> If you are interested in general discussion about Free Software and education issues 
				or would like to participate, please join our 
				<a href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/edu-eu/">mailing list</a>.
			</p>
      <h3>Educational Task Force</h3> 

      <p>
	To speed up and increase communication in the educational
       field, the Free Software Foundation Europe have created an
       educational task force, currently consisting of Hilaire
       Fernandes, Mario Fux, Georg Greve, Aigars Mahinovs, Alessandro
       Rubini, Chritian Selig, Richard Smedley. Our goals are:

      </p>

      <ul>

	<li>
	  networking Free Software in Education efforts and energies
	to connect people, thus avoiding duplication of efforts (i.e.,
	there are three databases with free edu software);
	</li>
	<li>
	  spreading information about Free Software in Education;
	</li>
	<li>
	  spreading information about the importance of software
	freedoms;
	  </li>
	<li>
	  communicating through the <a
	  href="mailto:edu-team@fsfeurope.org">edu-team@fsfeurope.org</a>
	  mailing list.
	</li>

      </ul>

      <p>
	If you want to be part of this effort (which means that you
	are devoted to it, not just observing), we have some
	requirements:
      </p>
      
      <ul>
	<li>
	  experience with GNU/Linux, Free Software and education;
	</li>
	<li>
	  a clear "No" to non-free software;
	</li>
	<li>
	  advantageous: previous work in that field;
	</li>
	<li>
	  you should live in Europe (i.e. NA, India and China have
	  their own FSF educational efforts, so please join them if
	  you live there).
	</li>
      </ul>

      <p>
	The task force can be reached via
	edu-team@fsfeurope.org. Currently, we have contacts in France,
	Germany, Italy, Latvia, Switzerland and the UK. I hope that
	we can find ways to receive EU funding and get in touch with
	politicians.
      </p>

<!-- End page content -->

		</div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

	</body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
