<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>FSF Europe - Education</title>
	</head>
	<body>

		<div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
			<center>
				[
				<!-- Please update as needed and keep it in alphabetical order -->
				<a href="education.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
				English |
				<a href="education.fr.html">Français</a> <!--|
				<a href="index.pt.html">Português</a> --> 
				]
			</center>

			<!-- Begin page content --> 
			<div align="center">
				<h2>Education</h2>
			</div> 
			
			<h3>General</h3> 
			
			<p> The Free Software Foundation Europe actively promotes the
				use of Free Software in schools and universities. Free Software
				is pedagogically and technologically superior to proprietary
				systems. But more importantly, its basic spirit involving freedom and cooperation
				is the same spirit of education in a democratic environment.  
			</p> 
			
			<p>
				We have a more <a href="argumentation.en.html">detailed argumentation</a>
				which sums up why we think that Free Software
				is the kind of software which should be used in education.
			</p> 
			
			<h3>Associations</h3> 
			
			<p> The Free Software Foundation has separate 
				<a href="http://www.gnu.org/education/">pages on education</a>.  
			</p>
			
			<p> There are already some organizations which support and advocate the 
				use of Free Software in education:
			</p>
			
			<ul> 
				<li> The <a href="http://www.ofset.org/">Organization for Free Software 
					in Education and Teaching</a> (OFSET) promotes the development of free software 
					for the educational system and teaching. OFSET is an associated organization of 
					the FSF Europe.  
				</li> 
				<li> The <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/osie">Open Source in Education</a> 
					Project (OSiE) supports and advocates the use of GNU/Linux systems in the UK.  
				</li> 
				<li> The <a href="http://fsub.schule.de/">Freie Software und Bildung e.V.</a> 
					(FSuB e.V., Association for Free Software and Education) promotes the use of GNU/Linux 
					systems in German schools.<br/> 
					Please note that the FSuB e.V. also accepts the use of proprietary software on top of 
					GNU/Linux, a position with which we strongly disagree.
				</li> 
			</ul> 
			
			<h3>Contact</h3> 
			
			<p> If you are interested in general discussion about Free Software and education issues 
				or would like to participate, please join our 
				<a href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/edu-eu/">mailing list</a>.
			</p>

<!-- End page content -->

		</div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

	</body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
