<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Press Room - FSFE</title>
    <link href="/style/grid.css" rel="stylesheet" />
    <script>

      /*
       * Fields that carry values at page load will be emptied if this
       * is called and the field has not been edited before.
       */
      var changedFields = new Array();

      function removeValue(field) {
        if (!changedFields[field.getAttribute("name")]) {
          changedFields[field.getAttribute("name")] = true;
          field.value = "";
        }

        return false;
      }

    </script>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Press</h1>

  <div id="introduction">

<p>
      FSFE believes that access to software determines who may
      participate in digital society.  The freedoms to
      <a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">use, study, share, and improve</a>
      software are necessary for equal participation in the information age.
    </p></div>

    <p>
      The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
      non-governmental organisation active in
      <a href="/contact/local.html">many European countries</a> and involved in
      many global activities.  Access to software determines participation in a
      digital society:  To secure equal participation in the information age,
      as well as freedom of competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe
      pursues and is dedicated to the furthering of Free Software; defined by
      the freedoms to use, study, modify and copy.  Founded in 2001, creating
      awareness for these issues, securing Free Software politically and
      legally, and giving people Freedom by supporting development of Free
      Software are central issues of the FSFE.
    </p>


    <div class="grid-50-50">
      <div class="box first">
        <h2>Get our Press Releases</h2>

        <p>
          By subscribing to our news feeds or mailing lists you can
          keep up-to-date with the latest news in the Free Software
          world.
        </p>

        <form method="post" action="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/mailman/subscribe/press-release">
          <p>
            <input type="text" name="email" value="youremail@example.com" onClick="removeValue(this)" />
            <input type="submit" value="Subscribe" />
          </p>
        </form>

        <p>
          For instant updates and hot news you can also follow us <a
            href="http://identi.ca/fsfe">on Identi.ca</a> or <a
            href="http://twitter.com/fsfe">on Twitter</a>.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div class="box">
        <h2><a href="/news/news.html" class="feed">Latest news</a></h2>

        <dynamic-content />
      </div>
    </div>


    <h2>Enquiries</h2>

    <p>
      Please direct enquiries to <a
        href="mailto:press@fsfeurope.org">press@fsfeurope.org</a>, or by post
      to:
    </p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br />
      Schönhauser Allee 6/7<br />
      10119 Berlin<br />
      Germany
    </address>

    <p>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290
    </p>

    <p>
      For general enquiries please see our
      <a href="/contact/contact.html">contact information</a>.
    </p>


    <h2 id="subpages" class="show-heading">Resources</h2>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/graphics/graphics.html">Logo and Graphics</a></h3>
        <p>
          Download our logo and other graphics.
        </p>
      </li>

      <!--
        We should have a link to a subset of people on our people page who can
        give official press statements
      -->

      <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">Free Software Basics</a></h3>
        <!-- Later this should link to /freesoftware/ -->
        <p>
          Learn the difference between Free Software, Open Source, and Libre
          Software.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>

  <timestamp>10-01-23 17:58:15 +0100 (Sam, 23. Jän 2010) $ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
