<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2010-01-29">
<head>
	<title>Fellows: Elect your GA representative in February</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Election period for the second Fellowship seat in the GA in February</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">During the whole of February 2010, FSFE's Fellows will be
able to elect their second representative in FSFE's General Assembly. The
winner of the election will help FSFE's strategic decision making body plan the
future of the organisation, and will join <a
  href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/torsten.grote/">Torsten Grote</a> who occupies
the first Fellowship seat <a href="/news/2009/news-20090601-01.html">since
  earlier last year</a>. Both Fellowship representatives are full <a
  href="/about/members.html">members of the General Assembly</a> for a term of
two years, and have all the rights and obligations of other members.</p>

<ul>

  <li><em>Who can vote?</em> All registered Fellows can vote.</li>

  <li><em>Who can be elected?</em> To become a candidate, you need to have been
  an active Fellow for at least a year before the election. This helps to make
  sure that the people elected into the GA are familiar with <a
    href="/about/about.html">FSFE</a> and <a href="/projects/work.html">its
    work</a>.</li>

  <li><em>Election Platform</em> All candidates will use the <a
    href="http://wiki.fsfe.org">wiki</a> and/or their <a
    href="http://planet.fsfe.org">blogs</a> as a promotion platform, so that
  all Fellows can learn more about them.</li>

  <li><em>Voting System</em> For the voting process we will use the Schulze
  method, a popular voting system used by Debian, Wikimedia and others. It is a
  well tested method and has proven to be resistant to voting anomalies.</li>

</ul>

<p>All candidates who registered by the January 25th deadline are listed <a
  href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/election10">on the 2010 election website</a>. <a
  href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellows</a> will receive an e-mail to their
[login]@fsfe.org e-mail alias. There the voting URL and all other necessary
information is included. If you have questions, please <a
  href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/contact.en.html">contact the Fellowship
  team</a>.</p>

</body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
