<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html newsdate="2010-10-18">
  <head>
    <title>2286 public websites advertise non-free software</title>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/scripts/flattr.js"/>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>2286 public websites advertise non-free software</h1>

<!--@ translators : please do not translate the comments, they will help me integrate the figures. Thx, maelle-->

<p newsteaser="yes"><a class="FlattrButton" style="display:none;" rev="flattr;button:compact;"
href="http://pdfreaders.org/"></a> 
During Free Software Foundation Europe's <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/pdfreaders.html">pdfreaders.org</a> campaign,
Free Software activists from 41 countries have reported 2286 public sector institutions which advertise non-free PDF readers on their
websites. FSFE will now contact these institutions, trying to get as many
advertisements for non-free PDF readers as possible removed before the end of the year.
Progress will be documented on the <a
  href="/campaigns/pdfreaders/buglist.html">list of reported institutions</a>.</p>

<p>
"Public bodies are right to try and make things easy for citizens by
explaining how to open the files on their sites. But by advertising
non-free software, they're doing citizens a disservice", says Karsten
Gerloff, President of the Free Software Foundation Europe. "Democratic
governments are supposed to give us freedom, not to drive us into
dependence on a single software vendor."
</p>

<p>Most versions of the PDF file
format are <a href="/projects/os/os.html">Open Standards</a>, but the
advertised readers are proprietary. These advertisements help to build a brand
for the one particular non-free software company. The public sector becomes
a marketing channel for that company and its products, making it harder
for <a href="http://www.pdfreaders.org">Free Software PDF readers</a> to gain
market share.</p>

<p>"We're frankly astonished at the amount of responses we got", says
Matthias Kirschner, FSFE's Fellowship coordinator. "The number of
reports we've received show that the problem is endemic across all
levels of the public sector." In just four weeks, hundreds of activists
from 41 countries submitted 2286 
<a href="/news/2010/news-20100913-01.en.html">reports about advertisement for
  non-free software</a> to FSFE. Beside that, already 37 organisations, 45 businesses and
1418 individuals have signed FSFE's petition asking
  public bodies to remove advertisements for non-free software from
  their websites. "This shows how many people across Europe care about
  software freedom and are willing to get active to help the public
  sector solve its advertising problem", continues Kirschner. </p>

<p>FSFE encourages public institutions to remove advertisements for non-free
software from their websites, or at least change their websites so that they no
longer discriminate against <a
  href="/about/basics/freesoftware.html">Free Software</a>. In February 2009 <a
  href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellows of FSFE</a> started <a
  href="http://pdfreaders.org/">pdfreaders.org</a>, a website listing Free
Software PDF readers for all major operating systems. The website also provides
recommendations based on a range of practical criteria, such as integration
with the operating system and ease of installation.</p>

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->


