<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2010-02-12">
  <head>
	  <title>On Valentine's Day, show your love for Free Software!</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>On Valentine's Day, show your love for Free Software!</h1>

    <p newsteaser="yes">
      This year on Valentine's Day, FSFE calls on Free Software users
      everywhere to show their love for Free Software.  Behind every Free
      Software initiative and organisation there are real, hard-working
      people.
    </p>

    <p>
      Free Software is everywhere.  Its presence on desktop computers,
      servers, routers, mobile phones, television sets and in other
      electronics means that most of us use Free Software every day.
    </p>

    <p>
      This is why for Valentine's Day, FSFE invites everyone to show
      their appreciation of the people who produce, distribute and
      promote Free Software.
    </p>

    <p>
      “This year why not take the opportunity to show you care about the
      people who show you their love all year round?”, suggests Karsten
      Gerloff, FSFE's President.  “Free Software is about making
      technology fit people's needs.  It's people who are at the centre
      of it all, not computers.”
    </p>

    <p>
      On <a href="http://www.fsfe.org/campaigns/valentine/2010/">its
        campaign page</a>, FSFE suggests what users can do to show that
      they appreciate Free Software.  Simply sending a developer a mail to
      say “Thank you”, buying them a book or just giving them a hug – with
      their permission, naturally.  Donating to a Free Software
      organisation is also among the options.
    </p>

    <p>
      Everyone is invited to post pictures online of them showing their
      love for Free Software.  On <a
        href="http://identi.ca/">Identi.ca</a> and Twitter, FSFE is using
      the hash tag <strong>#ilovefs</strong> to collect pictures and build
      a collage.
    </p>

    <p>
      You can see what people have posted so far: <a
        href="http://identi.ca/tag/ilovefs">http://identi.ca/tag/ilovefs</a>.
    </p>
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
