<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2010-03-31">
  <head>
	  <title>Liberate your documents!</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Liberate your documents!</h1>
    <h2>Document Freedom Day 2010</h2>

    <p newsteaser="yes">
      Today is Document Freedom Day 2010. For the third time, groups all over
      the world are celebrating open document formats and Open Standards. They
      are raising awareness for how a technical issue impacts our day- to-day
      lives.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Activities are taking place in many countries. In Germany and Austria,
      radio stations are receiving awards for offering streams in the open Ogg
      Vorbis format. In Slovenia, the country's highest court is commended for
      its use of the ODF format for text documents.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      In Romania, activists have been busy pointing out to public
      administrations that "I can't read your documents". In Johannesburg, South
      Africa, the Department of Arts and Culture will hold a celebration to mark
      DFD. In the Brazilian city of Vitoria, the group Espirito Livre is
      organising a conference on Free Software and Open Standards.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Document Freedom Day coordinator Fernanda Weiden says: "It is great to see
      so many volunteers with a passion for freedom in technology. These people
      care deeply about the way that software and standards affect their lives,
      and they are taking the initiative to make sure that others can enjoy the
      same freedoms as them."
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Computer users, companies and public administrations are storing huge
      amounts of information in electronic form. If this happens in a format
      that can only be read by software from a single vendor, the information
      will eventually be lost.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Open Standards, such as ODF for office documents or Ogg Vorbis for music,
      can be read and written with many different applications. They give users
      freedom of choice, since they work on any application on any platform or
      operating system.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      "Open document formats make sure that your valuable information doesn't
      turn into digital toxic waste with your next upgrade to a new software",
      says Karsten Gerloff, President of the Free Software Foundation Europe.
      "Whether it's your personal emails or your pension records in a government
      agency, it's important to think ahead. Will the software you're using now
      still be around in ten years' time? If the answer is no, make sure that
      your data is saved according to Open Standards."
    </p>
    
    <p>
      The DFD team will gather information and reports from this year's
      activities, organise them and publish them on the DFD web pages.
    </p>
    
    <ul>
      <li><a href="http://www.documentfreedom.org">Document Freedom Day campaign
      page<br />www.documentfreedom.org</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://www.documentfreedom.org/Category:Teams">List of
      participating groups</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20100324-01.en.html">German,
      Austrian Radio stations honoured for their use of Ogg Vorbis</a></li>
      <li>Document Freedom Day 2010 is coordinated by <a
      href="http://fsfe.org">Free Software Foundation Europe</a>. Participation
      is open to everyone, and groups are organising events independently.</li>
    </ul>
    
 
    
  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
