<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>EU: the unitary patent</title>
    <meta content="Information about the EU's unitary patent." name="description" />
    <meta content="computer implemented inventions software patent law copyright ideas computer program compatibility and interoperability companies software developers users non-free Free Software legal uncertainty costs pay smartphones unitary patent" />
  </head>

  <body>
	<h1>EU: the unitary patent</h1>

	<h2 id="about">What is the unitary patent?</h2>

	<p>
		Currently, a person or company who wants a monopoly on an idea across
		the European Union must apply for a patent in all 27 member states
		individually.
	</p>

	<p>
		A single market where people and goods can move freely across borders
		is one of the central ideas of the European Union. In practice, many
		restrictions still exist. The need to apply for a patent in each
		member state, rather than just once, is often seen as such a
		restriction. Patent holders resent the need to have their applications
		translated into each member state's national language, and comply with
		the different rules in each country.
	</p>

	<p>
		For years, the European Commission and others have been trying to
		build a patent system that covers the entire European Union, known as
		the "unitary patent".
	</p>

	<p>
		This process has proved surprisingly difficult. EU member states have
		argued about all sorts of things. For a while, a row about which
		languages patent applications could be filed in under the new, unitary
		system held things up.
	</p>

	<p>
		Another stumbling block was removed in June 2012, when the European
		Council finally agreed on where the new system's offices should be
		placed.
	</p>

	<h2 id="problem">Why is the unitary patent a problem?</h2>

	<p>
		A single European patent system would presumably make things more
		efficient for patent holders, and for people applying to them. But the
		devil is in the details.
	</p>
	
	<p>
		The current proposal has the following problems:

		<dl>
			<dd>
				No due process: Under the current proposal, the EPO not only awards
				the patent, but also gets to make the final decision on whether
				it remains valid when someone complains. The EPO court also lacks
				a broader perspective of the social costs of patents.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				We demand that the European Court of Justice must be the final
				court of appeal for patent complaints.
			</dt>

			<dd>
				Patents on software: Software patents are seriously hurting
				Europe's technology companies. The EPO has been granting software
				patents for decades, even though they are illegal under the
				European Patent Convention. The unitary patent would make this
				problem worse.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				We demand that the current
				proposal should explicitely
				exclude computer programs from
				patentability. A computer program
				is not a patentable invention just
				because it runs on generic data
				processing hardware.
			</dt>

			<dd>
				Giving up on innovation policy: Patents are a tool to promote
				innovation. Europe needs a more active innovation policy. Under the
				current proposal, the EU is handing over part of its sovereignty to
				an organisation that it has no control over - the EPO.
			</dd>

			<dt>
				We demand that the power to set Europe's innovation policy must
				rest with the democratically elected European Parliament.
			</dt>
		</dl>
	</p>

	<h2 id="action">Take action</h2>

	<p>
		While our concerns remain unchanged, the unitary patent is no
		longer on the agenda of the Legal Affairs committee for its
		meeting on September 17 and 18. We expect the issue to be
		discussed later in the autumn of 2012.
	</p>
	<p>
		We will continue to provide updates on this issue.
	</p>

	<h3 id="call-mep">Call an MEP</h3>

	<p>
	Doing this is easy. Find an MEP from your country in the Legal Affairs
	committee, and tell them about our demands. You can use <a href="
	http://call.unitary-patent.eu/campaign/call2/unitary-patent-juri-2012?setlang=en">this
	website</a> to identify and to call them. Here, you will also find
	call scripts to help you along.
	</p>
	
	<h3 id="letter-company">Companies: Share your concern about the unitary patent with your MEPs</h3>
	
	<p>
		Please consider supporting a <a
		href="http://unitary-patent.eu/content/companies-get-involved-against-software-patents-and-current-proposal-unitary-patent">resolution</a>
		against software patents and the current proposal for the
		unitary patent.
	</p>

	<p>
	If you want to contact an MEP to tell him/her about our demands and how the
	unitary patent might harm your activity, you can find a <a href="/activities/swpat/current/model-letter-companies.html">model letter
	here</a>.
	</p>
	
	<h2 id="reading">More articles on this topic</h2>

	<p>
		<ul>
			<li><a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/05/how-the-european-patent-system-works/">
			How the European patent system works</a> by Karsten Gerloff. September 5, 2012</li>
			<li><a href="https://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/2012/09/04/software-patents-in-europe-game-on/"
			>Software patents in Europe: game on</a> by Karsten Gerloff. September 4, 2012</li>
		</ul>
	</p>

</body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
