<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
	<head>
		<title>FAQ</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>FAQ</h1>
		
		<dl>
			<dt>Can the Fellowship sponsor my event?</dt>

      <dd>FSFE may be able to help with travel, material, or campaign costs.
      Contact the <a href="mailto:fellowship@fsfeurope.org">Fellowship
        administrators</a> if you would like financial help with a Fellowship
      related activity.</dd>
			
			<dt>Can I use the FSFE or Fellowship logo?</dt>

      <dd>The Fellowship logo (and variations of it) can be used in association
      with any Free Software related activity performed by FSFE Fellows, or to
      promote FSFE. It can also be incorperated into logos of local Fellowship
      groups if so desired.  If you do not have a mandate by FSFE, we ask you
      not to create the impression that you speak officially for FSFE, or that
      FSFE has certified or endorsed you to do so in any way.</dd>
			
      <dd>If you would like to use the FSFE logo, please see the <a
        href="/contribute/advocacy/advocacy.html#our-logo">advocacy
        page</a>.</dd>
			
      <dt>How can I contact other Fellows in my area?</dt>

      <dd>If there is already a local Fellowship group in your area, use their
      mailing-list to contact them (see "Is there already a Fellowship Group in
      my area?").</dd>
			
      <dd>If there is an FSFE team in your country you can ask them who else is
      in your area. Their details can be found on the <a
        href="/contact/local.html">Country Teams page</a>.</dd>
			
      <dd>Alternatively you can ask the <a
        href="mailto:fellowship@fsfeurope.org">Fellowship administrators</a>
      for information.</dd>

      <dd>See also <a href="communicate.html">Communicate with other
        Fellows</a>".</dd>
			
      <dt>Can I start a new Fellowship group?</dt>

      <dd>Absolutely! See "<a href="/fellowship/new-group.html">Starting a Fellowship
        Group</a>" for help and information.</dd>
			
      <dt>Can I use Fellowship services for my project or event?</dt>

      <dd>Fellows are encouraged to use FSFE services to coordinate Free
      Software related events. See "<a href="#">Fellowship Services</a>" for
      information about what services are available.</dd>
			
			<dd></dd>
			
      <dt>Can I run a Fellowship booth at an event?</dt>

      <dd>Yes but you need training. Ask for stock... use these forms...</dd>
			
			<dd></dd>
			
      <dt>What if I can't afford the minimum Fellowship donation?</dt>

      <dd>See information about the <a href="grant.html">Fellowship
        grant</a>.</dd>
			
      <dt>Is there already a Fellowship Group in my area?</dt>

      <dd>A list of existing groups can be found on the <a
        href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/CategoryFellowshipGroup">Fellowship
        Wiki</a>.</dd>
			
      <dt>Can I contact FSFE Fellows with some news or an event?</dt>

      <dd>If your news or event is non-commercial and relates to Free Software,
      please send information about it to the <a
        href="mailto:fellowship@fsfeurope.org">Fellowship administrators</a>.
      If it is appropriate then they will forward information to Fellows.</dd>
			
      <dt>Can I change my Fellowship username?</dt>

      <dd>Yes, you can. Find detailed information for this process <a
        href="https://www.wiki.fsfe.org/Fellowship/username">in the Fellowship
        Wiki</a>.</dd>

      <dt>How do I get a new Fellowship card?</dt>

      <dd>If your card got damaged or lost and you want to get a new one,
      simply pay €20,00 to:

      <address>
        Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.<br />
        IBAN: DE69 3602 0030 0003 0047 32<br />
        National-Bank Essen, Steinstraße 13, 40212 Dusseldorf, Germany<br />
        SWIFT/BIC: NBAG DE3E<br />
      </address>

      and give "Replacement card" and your Fellowship number in the title. The
      same procedure applies if you want to use Paypal, but you have to send
      the money (with the same title) to paypal AT fsfeurope DOT org.</dd>

		</dl>
		
	</body>

	<timestamp>$Date: 2011-12-07 12:09:14 +0000 (Wed, 07 Dec 2011) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
