<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Fellowship Grant</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Fellowship Grant</h1>

    <div id="introduction">

    <p>The Fellowship grant is a way for people involved in
    Free Software activism to become Fellows, even if they
    cannot afford the Fellowship contribution.</p>
	
    <p>Despite financial constraints many people in the Free
    Software community devote a great deal of their time to
    Free Software activities.  For example programming,
    translating, administrating, organising events, giving
    talks or advocating Free Software principles at public
    events. FSFE has now found a way to recognise their
    efforts and let them become part of the Fellowship.</p>
	
    <p>The grants will be awarded upon evaluation of
    individual candidacies and will provide a one-year
    Fellowship subscription.</p>

    </div>

	<h2>Duration of the project</h2>

  <p>The Fellowship grant project will last one year, starting
  from November 2009.</p>

  <p>Each month, FSFE will select three candidates and announce the decisions
  at the beginning of the following month.</p>

  <p>In December 2009, the first three grants will be given to people who
  applied in November.</p>

  <p>The last month in which it is possible to submit applications is October
  2010.</p>


	<h2>Who can apply</h2>

	<p>Anyone who</p>

	<ul>
		<li>Shares the Fellowship and Free Software principles</li>
		<li>Is active in the diffusion, development and improvement of Free Software</li>
		<li>Cannot afford the Fellowship contribution</li>
	</ul>

	<p>is welcome to apply for the grant.</p>

	<h2>How to apply for a Fellowship grant</h2>
	
	<p>To apply for the grant is very easy:</p>

	<p>Write an e-mail to <a href="mailto:fellowship@fsfeurope.org">fellowship (at) fsfeurope (dot) org</a>,
	where you introduce yourself, explain the reasons why you would like to join the Fellowship, and
	what you have been doing in the past to support Free Software.</p>

        <h2>Who made it possible</h2>
        
        <p>The Fellowship grant has only been possible thanks to
	<a href="http://www.fsfe.org/donate/thankgnus-2009.en.html">FSFE's supporters</a>
	In particular, a generous donation from tarent GmbH, finally enabled FSFE to
	offer the Fellowship grant.</p>

  <p>Elmar Geese, CEO at tarent GmbH says: <blockquote><p>"We grew closer to
    the Fellowship of FSFE since some of our employees are already Fellows. We
    know that being a Fellow is a great way to become involved with FSFE and
    make a real difference for Free Software. We are glad that our contribution
    will allow other enthusiastic people to become part of the
    Fellowship."</p></blockquote></p>
	

	<h2>Further information</h2>

  <p>For any questions concerning the Fellowship grant you can <a
    href="/contact/contact.html}">contact us</a>.</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
