<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
<!-- Begin page content -->

<center>
<h1>Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</h1>
</center>

<h3>Version 1.0</h3>
<ul>
English: <a href="FLA-1.0.en.pdf">PDF(96k)</a><br />
German: <a href="FLA-1.0.de.pdf">PDF(94k)</a><br />
</ul>

<h2>What is the FLA?</h2>

<p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) seeks to strengthen the legal
fundament of Free Software by allowing Free Software authors to make
the FSF Europe their fiduciary for all legal issues.</p>

<p>This is in principle very similar to what the FSF North America has
been doing with its Copyright Assignments (CAs) for the <a
href="http://www.gnu.org">GNU Project</a> in order to secure the legal
fundament on which our operating system stands.</p>

<p>As some readers will know, the continental European "Droit
d'Auteur" (authorship right) tradition is in some parts significantly
different from the Anglo-American Copyright tradition.</p>

<p>Giving special attention to these differences, the Fiduciary
Licence Agreement offers a European approach to the same issues
handled by the Copyright Assignment mentioned above.</p>

<h3>Effect</h3>

<p>The effects of the Fiduciary Licence Agreement can be summarized as
follows:
<ul>
<li>Transferral of Copyright/Exclusive Exploitation rights to the FSF
Europe</li>
<li>Re-Transferral of unlimited Usage/Single Exploitation rights to
the assigning party.</li>
<li>Safety clause: Should the FSF Europe ever use the transferred
rights for proprietary software, the assignment becomes void.</li>
</ul>
</p>

<h3>Authors</h3>

<p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) was written in cooperation
between Axel Metzger (<a href="http://www.ifross.de">ifross</a>),
Carsten Schulz (<a href="http://www.ifross.de">ifross</a>) and Georg
Greve (<a href="http://fsfeurope.org">FSF Europe</a>) in consultation
with others who take interest in the legal security of Free
Software. At some time involved in the process were Eben Moglen, Till
Jaeger, Werner Koch, Alessandro Rubini, Reinhard Müller and
others.</p>

<h3>Usage</h3>

<p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) is Copyright 2002, 2003 Free
Software Foundation Europe. Similar to the <a
href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html">GNU General Public
License</a> (GPL), everyone is given permission to copy and distribute
it, but changing it is not allowed.</p>

<p>If you wish to make the FSF Europe your fiduciary by filling out
the assignment, please send information about the project to
<code><a
href="mailto:fla@fsfeurope.org">fla@fsfeurope.org</a></code>.</p>

<p>For the legal security of Free Software, we hope to be able to
provide this service to as many projects as possible, but our
resources are limited by the support we receive in terms of <a
href="/help/help.html">volunteer contribution</a> and <a
href="/help/donate.html">donations</a>, so this will need to be
decided upon a case to case basis.</p>

<p>If you are another Free Software organization that wishes to adopt
the Fiduciary Licence Agreement to increase the legal standing of your
own projects, please also write to <code><a
href="mailto:fla@fsfeurope.org">fla@fsfeurope.org</a></code>.</p>

<p>Generally we will be glad to allow such uses, but we would like to
know what you plan and also to ask you to include a notice referring
to the source of the document.</p>

<h3>Feedback</h3>

<p>General feedback, comments and also questions about the Fiduciary
Licence Agreement (FLA) can be sent to <code><a
href="mailto:fla@fsfeurope.org">fla@fsfeurope.org</a></code>.</p>

<h2>Background</h2>

<p>With growing popularity, Free Software also faces more and more
legal issues. Unlike proprietary projects, which tend to be owned by a
single company and thrown away after a few years, Free Software often
has many authors and is used for many years, some of the Free Software
programs in wide use are 10-20 years old or even older than that.</p>

<p>Making sure these programs will be legally safe to use and
defendable even after their authors are possibly nowhere to be found
or have even left planet earth is one of the issues the Free Software
community is facing.</p>

<p>Recently, we have also seen an increase in cases where authors of
Free Software were attacked solely on legal grounds to get him or her
to change the name of a software package or to stop distributing it
entirely. We as a community must find ways to defend our active
contributors against this.</p>

<p>Another issue is that more and more companies are running Free
Software projects and ask developers to give up their rights so these
companies can sell proprietary versions of that piece of Free
Software.</p>

<p>As management, company policy and markets are often subject to
drastic and rapid change, no company could ever guarantee to stick to
a certain policy for 20 years or more. Additionally, no company is
entirely safe from bankruptcy or buy-outs by other companies.</p>

<p>Also for this reason companies often don't trust each other to "do
the right thing" for a long time into the future.</p>

<p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement will help with all these issue by
allowing the FSF Europe
<ul>
<li>to relicence software under a new Free Software licence, should it
become necessary because of technical or legal changes.</li>
<li>to defend software against abuse, even in court, should that
become necessary.</li>
<li>to protect Free Software authors by accepting to take over their
risk of being attacked on legal grounds.</li>
<li>to provide a stabilizing and equalizing factor in commercial or
mixed commercial/volunteer Free Software development.</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>Especially the fourth issue is becoming increasingly important with
publicly funded software in Europe.</p>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Last update:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
