<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!--
	This document should contain a description of FSFE's legal activities, with links to more detailed pages
	It is intended for the casual visitor that wants to know what we do in the legal area.
-->

<!-- ftf.en.xhtml should point to this document-->

<html>
	<head>
		<title>Activities - FSFE Legal</title>
		
		<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
		
		<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	
	<body>
		<p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our work</a></p>
	
		<h1>Legal activities</h1>

		<p id="introduction">FSFE is committed to helping individuals, projects, businesses and government agencies find Free Software legal <a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">information</a>,	<a href="/activities/ftf/network.html">experts</a> and <a href="/activities/ftf/services.html">support</a>. We do this by providing <strong>compliance</strong>, <strong>best practice</strong>, <strong>procurement</strong> and <strong>governance</strong> resources <a href="/about/team.html"> in-house</a>, in partnership with our <a href="/associates/associates.html"> associate organisations</a> and through our extensive <a href="/activities/ftf/ln.html">network</a> of contacts. Our mission is to spread knowledge, solve problems and encourage the long-term growth of Free Software. We are delighted to help you as part of this.</p>

		<div class="grid-50-50">
			<div class="box first">
				<h3>Supporting Compliance</h3>

				<p>FSFE provides support to <a href="/activities/ftf/useful-tips-for-users.html">users</a>, <a href="/activities/ftf/useful-tips-for-vendors.html">vendors</a>, and government agencies regarding commercial and non-commercial use of Free Software. We also help people who want to <a href="/activities/ftf/reporting-fixing-violations.html">report a licence violation</a> by addressing compliance issues in the market in partnership with <a href="http://gpl-violations.org/">gpl-violations.org</a>.</p>
				
				<h3>Supporting Best Practice</h3>
				
				<p>FSFE supports best practice for projects, companies and government agencies using Free Software by encouraging <a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">information-sharing</a>, <a href="/activities/ftf/legal-conference.html">hosting events</a> and <a href="/activities/ftf/licence-questions.html">answering questions directly</a>.</p>
				
				<h3>Supporting Governance</h3>

				<p>FSFE provides one-to-one consultancy for projects and business about management processes, development policies and organizational structures that support Free Software.</p>
				
				<h3>Supporting Procurement</h3>

				<p>FSFE provides one-on-one consultancy to government agencies about procurement and public tender approaches that allow fair competition, choice, and access for Free Software.</p>
				
				<h3>Developing Infrastructure</h3>

				<p>FSFE also provides <a href="/activities/ftf/services.html">educational outreach and a copyright fiduciary agreement</a> for Free Software Projects. FSFE produces information on <a href="/activities/ftf/building-legal-infrastructure.html">how to build a legal infrastructure</a> for a Free Software project, about governance, copyright and trademark.</p>
			</div>
			
			<div class="box">
				<h3>The Legal Network</h3>
				
				<p>FSFE facilitates the world's <a href="/activities/ftf/ln.html">largest private, neutral network of legal experts</a> in the field of Free Software licensing. This network drives discussions and develops knowledge around licensing and legal issues, providing a unique forum for driving maturity.</p>
				
				<h3>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop</h3>
				<p>We host the <a href="/activities/ftf/legal-conference.html">Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop</a>, a yearly event for debating, discussing and sharing knowledge about the current market situation and projected future for Free Software licenses. This is the world's premier event for debating, discussing and sharing knowledge around Free Software legal affairs.</p>
				
				<h3>Special Interest Groups</h3>
				
				<p>We organize <a href="/activities/ftf/ln-structure.html#sigs">Special Interest Groups</a> to discuss topics ranging from business processes to license management. These groups are designed to reduce misunderstandings, share knowledge and address areas where there is a lack of available guidance.</p> 
				
				<h3>Sharing Knowledge</h3>

		        <p>FSFE maintains a collection of <a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">documentation</a> on Free Software Legal and Licensing topics. It also produces guides and handbooks.</p>
      		</div>
    	</div>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
