<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Licensing FAQ - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
 <p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
    <h2>What is software licensing?</h2>

    <p>Software licences tell people how the rights holder (usually the author) 
    wants the software to be used and what freedoms or restrictions it has. 
    Without a licence, many uses of the software may be prohibited.</p>

    <p>Free Software licenses are licenses that give permission for a user to
    obtain <a href="/documents/freesoftware.html">four important freedoms</a>; 
    the freedom to use, modify, share and
    improve software. Copyleft licenses are Free Software licences that
    allow the four fundamental freedoms under the condition that those
    freedoms remain intact in further distribution of the software or
    derivative works.</p>

    <p>The <a href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl.html">GNU GPL</a> is the most 
    famous Free Software copyleft license and is
    used by a large percentage of Free Software projects.  It has many
    useful features, like ensuring the four freedoms and providing a limited
    warranty and disclaimer of liability clause to protect developers
    releasing their work to the public.</p>

    <p>There are many <a href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/">Free Software licenses</a>,
    some without any copyleft effect.
    Some of these are compatible with the GNU GPL, some have special
    provisions that enable compatibility, some are incompatible.</p>

    <p>If people use the same licence or at least compatible licences then
    projects can exchange code freely.  We encourage everyone to use the 
    GNU GPL for all software.</p>

  </body>

  
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
