<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FAQ - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
 <p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
	<h1>General Legal FAQ</h1>

<h3>What is the Freedom Task Force?</h3>

<p>The Freedom Task Force is a name used to described FSFE's legal deparment.
The legal department provides licence support services to individuals,
projects and businesses involved with Free Software.</p>

<h3>What is the structure of FSFE's legal department?</h3>

<p>FSFE's legal team includes a coordinator, the general counsel and
volunteers who help address incoming questions, facilitate the European
Legal Network, and manage FSFE's internal legal affairs.</p>

<h3>What legal services does FSFE offer?</h3>

<p>We offer licensing services to individuals, projects and businesses
involved with Free Software. These services include licence education,
fiduciary services and working to support gpl-violations.org in their
licence enforcement.</p>

<h3>Do FSFE just help with European projects?</h3>

<p>FSFE can help with worldwide licensing questions. If we cannot answer your
questions directly we will help connect you to the right parties. One of our
primary roles is to facilitate effective networking.</p>

<h3>How can I contact FSFE about legal matters?</h3>

<p>By emailing <a href="mailto:licence-questions@lists.fsfe.org?subject=FSFE Legal Question">licence-questions@lists.fsfe.org</a></p>

<h3>What connection do you have with gpl-violations.org?</h3>

<p>FSFE works in partnership with gpl-violations.org. Our primary area of
cooperation is in dealing with violations of Free Software licences.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with the FSF License Lab?</h3>

<p>All of the Free Software Foundations cooperate to ensure the promotion and
protection of Free Software. A practical example of this would be FSFE passing
licence violation reports to the FSF Compliance Lab when they involve FSF
copyright.</p>

<h3>What connection do you have with the Software Freedom Law Center?</h3>

<p>We have the same goal of strengthening the Free Software eco-system.
We will cooperate where possible to ensure the promotion and protection of
Free Software.</p>
	
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
