<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Fiduciary Programme - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
   <p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
	<h1>Fiduciary Programme</h1>

<p>FSFE can act as the legal guardian of Free Software projects. The
Fiduciary Programme allows projects to use the <a href="fla.html">Fiduciary
License Agreement (FLA)</a> to assign copyrights to FSFE, allowing the
consolidation and effective management of their copyright status. It allows
developers to focus on making great applications rather than dealing with
legal administration.</p>

<p>FSFE makes sure projects are in a strong legal position without being
prescriptive; we don't dictate project policy or project management. Our
ob is to make sure you can do your job.</p>

<p>The details of our <a href="guidelines.html">fiduciary selection
process</a> and our <a href="fiduciary-policy.html">policies</a> are
available for review, and your comments are always welcome.</p>

<p>You can also adapt the Fiduciary License Agreement (FLA) to consolidate
your copyright under your own administrative umbrella.  We have a page
containing customisable versions of the FLA <a href="fla.html">here</a>.</p>

<p>If you would like more information about our fiduciary programme
please <a href="/activities/ftf/contact.html">contact us</a>.</p>


<h2>Details of the Programme</h2>
 
  	<h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  
    <ul>
    
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/ftf/guidelines.html">Fiduciary Programme Acceptance Guidelines</a></h3>
        <p>FSFE needs to make decisions on a case to case basis for each project that seeks to have FSFE as its fiduciary.</p>
      </li>
    
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/ftf/fiduciary-policy.html">Fiduciary Licence Policy</a></h3>
        <p>How FSFE interacts with its fiduciaries, rules and neutrality.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>


<h2>Projects involved</h2>
 
  	<h2 id="subpages">Navigation</h2>
  
    <ul>
    
      <li>
        <h3><a href="http://ev.kde.org/rules/fla.php">KDE</a></h3>
        <p>Since 2008 KDE e.V. uses the FLA as its preferred form for assigning copyright to KDE e.V. On this matter FSFE assists KDE e.V. in several ways.</p>
      </li>
    
	  	<li>
        <h3><a href="/activities/ftf/bacula-agreement.html">Bacula</a></h3>
        <p>FSFE has been offering the service of copyright consolidation to Bacula since 2006.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
