<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) - FSFE Legal</title>
  </head>

  <body class="article" microformats="h-entry">
	  
   <p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>

<h1 class="p-name">Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</h1>

<div class="e-content">
</div>

<!-- <h3>Abstract</h3>

<p>A Fiduciary License Agreement (FLA) is an agreement between the owner of
a copyright and a fiduciary. The FLA a transfers some of the right of use
from the copyright owner to the fiduciary. Other than a collecting society the
FLA is about <i>grouping</i> the interests of the copyright owners at the
fiduciary (and not the distribution of the product).</p>

<p>The usage of a software is governed by a license agreement.
Free-software-projects usually have more than one copyright owner who work
collaboratively on that project. In case there happens a violation of the 
license agreement this distributed copyright might cause problems because in 
case of a lawsuit all the copyright owners may need to be present.</p>

<p>The FLA bundles all the rights of the copyright owners at the fiduciary. He 
can then effectively push the interests of the copyright holders in court.</p> -->

<h2 id="why-would-i-need-fla">Why would I need FLA?</h2>

<p>Development of Free Software can follow many patterns. In some cases 
whole development is handled by sole programmer or a small group of people. 
But more often, creation and maintenance of software is a complex process 
encompassing many individuals. This also reflects on who owns the rights 
in software. In the latter case, rights in software are owned jointly by 
a great number of individuals.</p>

<p>To tackle this issue some projects require a full copyright assignment to be 
signed by all contributors. The problem with such assignments is often that 
they lack check and balances that would protect the contributors from 
potential abuse of power from the new copyright holder.</p>

<p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) was created just with that in mind – to 
concentrate all deciding power within one entity and prevent fragmentation of 
rights on one hand, while on the other preventing that single entity from 
abusing its power.</p>

<p>Solution is so-called <i>Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA)</i>. This 
technique makes it possible to concentrate all the deciding power within 
one entity and prevent fragmentation of rights.</p>

<p>This process only serves for transfer of economic rights. So-called 
moral rights (e.g. authors right to be identified as author) remain with 
original author and are inalienable.</p>

<h2 id="how-does-fla-function">How does FLA function?</h2>

<p>FLA is an agreement between two parties - on the one side is an individual 
who contributed to software and therefore is co-author (<i>Contributor</i>), 
the other party is entity - it might be natural person but also company 
or organisation - who will be the new holder of rights (<i>Trustee</i>). 
This way the fragmentation of rights among many contributors can be prevented. 
Instead all the rights will be concentrated in one entity. It ensures, 
that copyright-relevant modifications (aforementioned re-licensing) can 
be done easier, without need to pin down all contributors.</p>

<p>Contributor does not lose all her rights, just the exclusivity in them. 
While she transfers her exclusive rights to the entity responsible for 
managing, Trustee reciprocally grants her a non-exclusive worldwide, royalty-free, 
perpetual and irrevocable licence to same extent as it was originally 
transferred from Contributor.</p>

<h2 id="what-if-trustee-misuses-the-rights-i-gave-to-them">What if trustee misuses the rights I gave to them, e.g. by re-licensing Free Software as a proprietary one?</h2>

<p>FLA offers a special clause for this kind of situation to protect the 
Free Software project against potentially malicious intentions of Trustee. 
According to this provision, if Trustee acts against the principles of Free 
Software, all granted rights and licences return to their original owners. 
That means Trustee will be effectively prevented from continuing any activity 
which is contrary to principles of Free Software.</p>

<h2 id="who-can-be-trustee">Who can be Trustee?</h2>

<p>As was mentioned above, Trustee can be basically anyone, whether a 
natural person, company or organisation. But before becoming a Trustee, 
it is always important to assess all the risks connected with becoming one. 
Being a Trustee is a responsibility that should not be underestimated.</p>

<!-- old version 

<h3>What is the FLA?</h3>

<p>The Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA) is a copyright assignment that allows
one entity to safeguard all of the code created for a project by consolidating
copyright (or exclusive exploitation rights) to counteract copyright
fragmentation.</p>

<p>This enables projects to protect their legal maintainability by preserving
the ability to relicense code and ensuring sufficient rights to enforce
licences in court. The person assigning does not lose their rights to the
code either, as the FLA gives back unlimited usage/single exploitation rights
to the author. The FLA also applies a set of principles for the fiduciary.
If they breach these principles, all grants and licenses made to them
automatically expire.</p>

<p>Benefeciaries of the FLA assign the copyright in their work, and in 
countries where assignments of the copyright in a work are impossible, 
they grant the fiduciary an exclusive license (see §1(1) for details). 
Therefore, the FLA is designed to work in both civil and common law countries.</p>

-->

<h2 id="how-to-use-fla-for-your-own-project">How to use FLA for your own project?</h2>

<p>The <a href="FLA.en.pdf">previous version</a> of FLA was used for the 
FSFE's <a href="https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fiduciary.en.html">Fiduciary Programme</a>. 
Unfortunately, the FSFE is no longer accepting new projects under the 
Fiduciary Programme at the moment, however you can use our customisable 
version of the updated FLA-2.0 in order to consolidate your copyright under 
your own administrative umbrella. It can also be adapted to assign the rights to 
any other third party.</p>

<p><strong>If you want to use our updated FLA-2.0 for your own project, please 
follow the instructions <a href="http://contributoragreements.org/ca-cla-chooser/">here</a>.</strong></p>

<h2 id="what-has-changed-in-fla-2.0">What has changed in FLA-2.0?</h2>

<p>FLA-2.0 was drafted in collaboration with <a href="http://contributoragreements.org/about.html">ContributorAgreements.org</a>
in order to better reflect the necessities of Contributors, and Trustees 
as recipients of contributions. As a result of this collaboration, the 
FLA-2.0 now includes:</p>

<ul>
<li>compatibility with more jurisdictions;</li>
<li>added patent licence for further protection against patent litigation;</li>
<li>clearer wording;</li>
<li>narrowing down the list of Free Software licences<a href="#fn1" class="fn" id="fnref1">1</a>;</li>
<li>more practical licensing options directed towards third parties – including referencing to an external licensing policy.</li>
</ul>

<p>All the changes were made in order to strengthen the position of both 
developers and the managing entity for a better management of rights within 
one project.</p>

<p>You can learn more about the FLA-2.0 by
<a href="mailto:licence-questions@lists.fsfe.org?subject=FSFE Legal Question">emailing us</a>.</p>

<h2 id="authors">Authors</h2>

<p>FLA-2.0 was written by Matija Šuklje and Catharina Maracke, based on the 
spirit of the original FLA and the ContributorAgreements.org templates, as 
well as in consultation with renowned international legal and technical 
experts. Special thanks should go to Aahit Gaba, Adriaan de Groot, Alessandro 
Rubini, Anthonia Ghalamkarizadeh, Axel Metzger, Carlo Piana, Florian 
Idelberger, Hugo Roy, Ingo Klöcker, Jonas Öberg, Jonathan Riddell, Lydia 
Pintscher, Malcolm Bain, Martin Husovec, Nicola Feltrin, Paul Brown, Pam 
Chestek, Polina Malaja, Vishesh Handa, as well as the Legal Network, KDE e.V. 
and DataVerse.</p>

<p>Initial version of FLA was written by Dr. Axel Metzger and Georg Greve in consultation 
with renowned international legal and technical experts. Parties ivolved 
in the evolution of the FLA included RA Dr. Till Jaeger, Carsten Schulz, 
Prof. Eben Moglen, RA Thorsten Feldmann (LL.M.), Werner Koch, Alessandro Rubini, 
Reinhard Muller, Shane Coughlan and others.</p>

<h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>
		
		<ol>
			<li id="fn1"><p>Free Software licence as in identified by <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html">Free Software Foundation</a> and <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/category">Open Source Initiative</a><a href="#fnref1" class="ref">↩</a></p></li>
		</ol>
</body>

  
 <sidebar promo="fiduciary-licence-agreement">

 <dynamic-content />     

<h2>Further information</h2>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://contributoragreements.org/ca-cla-chooser/">FLA-2.0 chooser</a></li>
<li><a href="FLA.en.pdf">The FSFE's earlier version of the FLA</a></li>
</ul>
</sidebar>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
