<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE Legal - The Freedom Task Force</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
   <p id="category"><a href="/work.html">Our work</a></p>
    <h1>FSFE Legal - The Freedom Task Force</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
	FSFE is committed to helping individuals, projects,
	businesses and government agencies find Free Software legal
	<a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">information</a>,
	<a href="/activities/ftf/network.html">experts</a> and
	<a href="/activities/ftf/services.html">support</a>. We do
	this by providing <strong>compliance</strong>, <strong>best practice</strong>, <strong>procurement</strong>
	and <strong>governance</strong> resources <a href="/about/team.html">
	in-house</a>, in partnership with our <a href="/associates/associates.html">
	associate organisations</a> and through our extensive
	<a href="/activities/ftf/network.html">network</a> of contacts.
	Our mission is to spread knowledge, solve problems and encourage the long-term
	growth of Free Software. We are delighted to help you as part of this.
      </p>
    </div>

    <div class="grid-50-50">
    
      <div class="box first">

	<h3>Supporting Compliance</h3>

	<p>FSFE provides support to <a href="/activities/ftf/useful-tips-for-users.html">users</a>, <a href="/activities/ftf/useful-tips-for-vendors.html">vendors</a>, and government agencies regarding commercial and non-commercial use of Free Software. We also help people who want to <a href="/activities/ftf/reporting-fixing-violations.html">report a licence violation</a> by addressing compliance issues in the market in partnership with gpl-violations.org.</p>

	<h3>Supporting Best Practice</h3>

	<p>FSFE supports best practice for projects, companies and government agencies using Free Software by encouraging <a href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">information-sharing</a>, <a href="/activities/ftf/legal-conference.html">hosting events</a> and <a href="mailto:licence-questions@lists.fsfe.org">answering questions directly</a>.</p>

	<h3>Supporting Governance</h3>

	<p>FSFE provides one-to-one consultancy for projects and business about management processes, development policies and organizational structures that support Free Software.</p>

	<h3>Supporting Procurement</h3>

	<p>FSFE provides one-on-one consultancy to government agencies about procurement and public tender approaches that allow fair competition, choice, and access for Free Software.</p>

      </div>
      
      <div class="box">
    
        <h3>Networking Experts</h3>

        <p>
          FSFE facilitates the world's <a href="/activities/ftf/network.html">largest private, neutral network
          of legal experts</a> in the field of Free Software licensing. This
          network drives discussions and develops knowledge around licensing
          and legal issues, providing a unique forum for driving maturity.  We also run the <a href="/activities/ftf/legal-conference.html">European Legal
	  Network Conference</a>, a yearly event for debating, discussing and sharing knowledge about the current market situation
	  and projected future for Free Software licenses. 
        </p>
 
	<h3>Sharing Knowledge</h3>

        <p>
          FSFE maintains a collection of <a
            href="/activities/ftf/documentation.html">documentation</a> on Free
          Software Legal and Licensing topics. It also produces
          guides and handbooks.
        </p>
        
        
        <h3>Developing Infrastructure</h3>

        <p>
          FSFE also provides <a href="/activities/ftf/services.html">educational outreach and copyright fiduciary
          programme services</a> for Free Software Projects. FSFE produces information on <a href="/activities/ftf/building-legal-infrastructure.html">how to build a legal infrastructure</a> for a Free Software projects, about governance, copyright and trademark.
        </p>

      </div>
      
    </div>

    <div class="center">
    
      <h3>Contact FSFE Legal Today</h3>

      <p>You can contact FSFE regarding legal issues by sending a message
      to <a href="mailto:licence-questions@lists.fsfe.org">licence-questions@lists.fsfe.org</a>.<br />
      English is our preferred language, though we can accept and translate
      other languages as required.</p>
    
    </div>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
