<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>About - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="moreinfo" href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">FSFE Legal</a>

    <h1>About FSFE's Legal Work</h1>

    <p class="background"> FSFE is committed to helping individuals, projects,
    businesses and government agencies find Free Software legal information,
    experts and support. We do this by providing <b>compliance</b>, <b>best
      practice</b>, <b>procurement</b> and <b>governance</b> resources
    in-house, in partnership with our associate organisations and through our
    extensive network of contacts.  Our mission is to spread knowledge, solve
    problems and encourage the long-term growth of Free Software. We are
    delighted to help you as part of this.  </p>

	<h2>Supporting Compliance</h2>

  <p>FSFE provides support to users, vendors, and government agencies regarding
  commercial and non-commercial use of Free Software. We also help people who
  want to report a licence violation by addressing compliance issues in the
  market in partnership with gpl-violations.org.</p>

	<h2>Supporting Best Practice</h2>

  <p>FSFE supports best practice for projects, companies and government
  agencies using Free Software by encouraging information-sharing, hosting
  events and answering questions directly.</p>

  <h2>Supporting Governance</h2>

  <p>FSFE provides one-to-one consultancy for projects and business about
  management processes, development policies and organizational structures that
  support Free Software.</p>

	<h2>Supporting Procurement</h2>

  <p>FSFE provides one-to-one consultancy to government agencies about
  procurement and public tender approaches that allow fair competition, choice
  and access for Free Software.</p>

  <h2>Networking Experts</h2>

  <p>FSFE facilitates the world's largest private, neutral network of legal
  experts in the field of Free Software licensing. This network drives
  discussions and develops knowledge around licensing and legal issues,
  providing a unique forum for driving maturity.  We also run the European
  Legal Network Conference, a yearly event for debating, discussing and sharing
  knowledge about the current market situation and projected future for Free
  Software licenses.</p>
 
	<h2>Sharing Knowledge</h2>

  <p>FSFE maintains a collection of documentation on Free Software Legal and
  Licensing topics. It also produces guides and handbooks.  </p>
        
        
  <h2>Developing Infrastructure</h2>

  <p>FSFE also provides educational outreach and copyright fiduciary programme
  services for Free Software Projects.  </p>
        
  <h2>Contact FSFE Legal Today</h2>
        
  <p>You can contact FSFE regarding legal issues by sending a message to
  legal@fsfeurope.org.<br /> English is our preferred language, though we can
  accept and translate other languages as required.</p>

    <address>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Schönhauser Allee 6/7, 10119 Berlin, Germany<br/>
      Phone: +49-30-27595290<br />
      http://fsfe.org/legal/<br/>
    </address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
