<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!--
	This page should describe the LLW.
	It is intended for participants and prospective participants to have an idea of what the event is about.
	Ideally it should include links to publicly available materials on the past editions.
-->

<html>
	<head>
		<title>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop - FSFE Legal</title>
		
		<meta name="description" content="Details on the most prominent event on Free Software legal topics"/>
		
		<meta name="keywords" content="Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop, LLW, Legal Network, LN, European Legal Network, ELN, Free Software, Open Source, event, meeting, conference, licensing, FSFE, GPL, copyleft, licence violation, lawyers, law, legal experts, best practices, information, join, subscribe, participate"/>
		
		<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
		
		<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	
	<body>
		<p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ln.html">The Legal Network</a></p>
		
		<h1>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop</h1>
		
		<p>The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop is held every year to allow legal experts to discuss issues and best practices surrounding Free Software licences. This event has become the world’s foremost gathering of lawyers, technologists and thought leaders on Free Software legal and licensing topics. With up to three days of talks in an informal and confidential atmosphere, the Workshop advances the state of the art of knowledge on topics ranging from licence compliance to patent management, from project governance to corporate responsibility and even further to the cutting edge issues themselves.</p>
		
		<p>Participation to the Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop provides legal professionals not only the opportunity to share knowledge and updates on the topics they are working on, but also a chance to meet and get acquainted with each other. These two aspects, combined, foster better licence compliance by spreading best practices. The conference also provides a forum for different professionals to better understand each other, thus reducing the overall friction in the sector.</p>
		
		<p>Participation to the event is open to all <a href="/activities/ftf/ln-rules.html#join">Legal Network members</a>. Invitations might be extended to non-members when the <a href="/activities/ftf/legal-team.html">FSFE’s Legal Team</a> deems their presence useful to the debate. If you think you might qualify, please send an e-mail to <a href="mailto:legal@lists.fsfe.org?Subject=LLW%20Participation">legal@lists.fsfe.org</a>.</p>
		
		<h2 id="llw2017">The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop 2017</h2>
		
		<p>The FSFE's annual Free Software Legal and Licensing workshop (LLW) took place from 26 to 28 April, in Barcelona, Spain.</p>
		
		<p>In 2017 workshop attracted more than 120 top legal experts from all over the world and included more than 35 presentations on numerous legal issues, including open data, tooling, software patents and existing challenges for Free Software licensing. Based on the topics discussed throughout the years and the feedback we collected, it seemed that several prominent topics for discussions needed to be reopened in order to address emerging challenges. Hence this year's workshop was held under the theme:
		<strong>Restart</strong></p>
		
		<p>Some of the topics we discussed:
			<ul>
				<li><strong>Open Government</strong><br />
				How public administrations, corporations and international organisations deal with the principle of openness?</li>
				
				<li><strong>The present and future of copyleft</strong><br />
				A debate over the challenges that copyleft is facing nowadays and the ways to move forward.</li>
				
				<li><strong>Tools for lawyers</strong><br />
				An exploration of the most useful tools for legal experts to support Free Software compliance.</li>
				
				<li><strong>Dilemmas in licensing</strong><br />
				Persisting questions and possible answers to issues found in the core of licensing: from finding file level licence information and authorship till language boundaries and attribution obligations.</li>
		
				<li><strong>Copyright trolls</strong><br />
				A discussion on current and past enforcement efforts.<a class="fn" id="ref-1" href="#fn-1">1</a></li>
				
				<li><strong>Patent and Free Software</strong><br />
				Argumentation on ways Free Software can efficiently address patent risks.</li>
				
				<li><strong>Cutting edge of Free Software</strong><br />
				State-of-the-art legal, technical and entrepreneurial approaches on Free Software.</li>
			</ul>
		</p>
				
		<h2 id="llw2016">The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop 2016</h2>
		
		<p>In 2016 Legal Network Conference was held on the 13, 14 and 15 of April 2016, in Barcelona, Spain.</p>
		
		<p>Backed up by the feedback and experience we collected in the past few years, we decided to continue with the trend of addressing important challenges. What we saw recently is that the situation is becoming more and more complex and that it is high time we do something about it. This is why the motto for 2016 was:<br />
		<strong>Simplify</strong></p>
		
		<p>Some of the topics we discussed were:
			<ul>
				<li><strong>NGOs for Free Software:</strong><br />
				Proposals and new ideas on legal structures for Free Software projects</li>
				
				<li><strong>Important non-software cases:</strong><br />
				Some cases that were not about software, but can impact how copyright on software is applied by courts</li>
				
				<li><strong>Tooling:</strong><br />
				The best tools to support and manage Free Software compliance</li>
				
				<li><strong>Working together:</strong><br />
				How collaborating on various issues can make everything simpler</li>
				
				<li><strong>Enforcement and compliance:</strong><br />
				Are the efforts towards enforcement making Free Software stronger?<a class="fn" id="ref-2" href="#fn-2">2</a></li>
			</ul>
		</p>
		
		<h2 id="llw2015">The Free Software Legal and Licensing Workshop 2015</h2>
		
		<p>In 2015 the workshop took place, once again, in Barcelona on 16-17 April, receiving more than 90 experts from all around the world. Instead of rehashing familiar topics, we looked at what problems we will likely encounter in the next five to ten years. Each day we had two topics to spur interesting debate in the room as well as the hallway. As always, the workshop was held under the <a href="/activities/ftf/ln-rules.html#chr">Chatham House Rule</a>, to encourage an open and unencumbered debate.</p>

		<h3>Topics</h3>
		
		<p>In 2015 we held a pre-event on 15 April, called the Open* Day, to explore topics beside software. In particular:
			<ul>
				<li><strong>Recent events and cases:</strong><br />
				Updates on patent, copyright and data mining cases</li>
				
				<li><strong>Plug-in licence for patents:</strong><br />
				Some proposals on how to add patent licensing clauses to older licences.</li>
				
				<li><strong>Research standards and their Free Software implementation:</strong><br />
				Exploring the relationship between standards, Free Software and their impact on public administrations and public procurement.</li>
				
				<li><strong>Openness - encouragement or compulsion?</strong><br />
				Discussing the advantages and disadvantages of different degrees of openness, considering also different legal tools to enforce it.</li>
				
				<li><strong>EU public sector, information and privacy:</strong><br />
				An overview on how those critical aspects of EU legislation interact with each other. How should they be balanced?</li>
			</ul>
		</p>

		<p>During the workshop (16-17 April), we discussed some activities more strictly linked to software:
			<ul>
				<li><strong>Greasing up compliance:</strong><br />
				An update on the most recent developments and ideas on licence compliance.</li>
			
				<li><strong>Patent friction:</strong><br />
				Some proposals and ideas on how to manage patents in Free Software licencing and their consequences.</li>
				
				<li><strong>Junction points:</strong><br />
				Exploring new exciting connections with different jurisdictions and different branches of the legal system.</li>
			</ul>
		</p>
		
		<!-- Footnotes -->
		<h2 id="fn">Footnotes</h2>
		
		<ol>
			<li id="fn-1">This discussion has been reported on LWN.net:
					<li><a href="https://lwn.net/Articles/721458/">The rise of copyright trolls</a></li><a href="#ref-1" class="ref">&#8617;</a></li>z
			<li id="fn-2">Two of those discussions have been reported on LWN.net:
				<ul>
					<li><a href="http://lwn.net/Articles/686768/">Enforcement and compliance for the GPL and similar licences</a></li>
					
					<li><a href="http://lwn.net/Articles/687550/">A discussion on combining CDDL and GPL code</a>.<a href="#ref-2" class="ref">&#8617;</a></li>
				</ul>
			</li>
		</ol>
	</body>
	
	<timestamp>$Date: $ $Author: polina $</timestamp>
</html>

<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
