<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>

<head>
	<title>European Legal Network - FSFE Legal</title>
	<meta content="Information about the largest legal support structure for Free Software in the world." name="description" />
	<meta content="FSFE free software open source ELN European Legal Network licensing GPL copyleft violation fiduciary lawyers law legal experts best practice information Free Software licensing." name="keywords" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
	<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
	<h1>The European Legal Network</h1>

<p id="introduction">
The European Legal Network is a neutral, non-partisan, private network of legal professionals facilitated by FSFE. Delegates share knowledge and cooperate to increase the availability of best practice information about Free Software licensing. The network has over 300 participants across 28 countries and 4 continents, and it is the largest legal support structure for Free Software in the world.
</p>

<p>
The network occasionally produces public documentation to help people explore and understand legal matters. These are discussion documents and the contents do not constitute legal advice or necessarily reflect the opinions of any contributor, or FSFE's own positions. You can find out more about these documents on  <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/EuropeanLegalNetwork">the independent network wiki</a>.
</p>

<p>
FSFE has extensive contacts in Europe, and can help locate legal experts, consultants or engineers in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Ireland, Poland, Portugal, Greece, Germany, Romania, Serbia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands and the UK. FSFE can also provide introductions to experts in Australia, Canada, China, Israel, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and the USA.
</p>

<p>
Persons wishing to join the European Legal Network may either ask an existing network member to recommend them, or may <a href="/activities/ftf/contact.html">contact FSFE's internal legal team</a> directly.
</p>

<p>
Network delegates have expressed a particular interest in welcoming new experts from countries that recently joined the EU, from the Baltic states, and across Asia.
</p>

<p>
Successful applicants will have profound expertise in legal matters pertaining to Free Software, and will join the network in order to share their knowledge with their peers from around the world. Discussions on the network are always conducted in a professional and respectful tone, and are held under the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatham_House_Rule">Chatham House rule</a>. Members agree to adhere to these rules when joining the network.
</p>

</body>
  <timestamp>$Date: $ $Author: hugo $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
