<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Recommended Experts - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
<p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
	<h1>Recommended Experts</h1>

<p>We recommend some legal and technical experts as exceptional partners in the field of Free Software. To be explicitly recommended the delegate must contribute significantly to Free Software and be <a href="legal-network-policy.html">approved</a> by the General Assembly of FSFE.</p>

<h3>Explicitly recommended lawyers:</h3>

<p style="margin:40px"><b>Germany</b><br />
Dr. Till Jaeger is a partner in the Berlin law firm JBB Rechtsanwälte. He represents FSFE in Germany and Harald Welte in GPL enforcement cases. He is chair of the "Internationalization" subcommittee within 
the GPLv3 process.<br />
<b>Email:</b> jaeger [at] jbb.de<br />
<b>Telephone:</b> +49 30 443 765 0<br />
<b>Post:</b>JBB Rechtsanwälte, Christinenstrasse 18/19, 10119 Berlin, Germany.<br />
<br />
<b>Italy</b><br />
Carlo Piana is a lawyer and Free Software advocate based in Milan. Among other things, he has represented FSFE and Samba in the Microsoft vs. EC Commission Antitrust case and is helping and advising many other Free Software projects to obtain necessary interoperability information following the victory in that case. He continues to represent FSFE as its general counsel. He is also active in the promotion of Open Standards and lectures at the University of Milan.<br />
<b>Email:</b> carlo [at ] piana.eu<br />
<b>Web:</b> ("Law is Freedom") http://www.piana.eu<br />
<b>Professional website:</b> ("Law is Freedom") http://law.piana.eu<br />
<b>Telephone:</b>+39 347 8835209<br />
<b>Post:</b>Avv. Carlo Piana, Corso Venezia 16, 20121 Milano, Italy.<br />
<br />
<b>Spain</b><br />
Malcolm Bain is a founding partner of id law partners, a boutique law firm in Barcelona specialising in [the IT-related aspects of copyright, patent and trademark law] IP/IT law. Malcolm has acted for a variety of Free Software projects and companies, and has also advised public entities on using and freeing software. He teaches "FOSS law" to engineers at university; and is also a member of the IFOSSLR Editorial Committee. Malcolm is both English solicitor and Spanish abogado, but his main jurisdiction of practice is Spain.<br />
<b>Email:</b> malcolm.bain [at ] id-lawpartners.com<br />
<b>Telephone:</b>+34 934 671 670<br />
<b>Post:</b>id law partners / BGMA, Paseo de Gracia 81-1, 08008 Barcelona, Spain.<br />
<br />
<b>United Kingdom (England and Wales)</b>
Andrew Katz is an English-qualified solicitor and partner in a boutique law firm in the Thames Valley, near London in England. He specialises in technology law and has an interest in and used (and, in a small way, written) Free Software for many years. He is also developing an interest in open hardware. He teaches an introduction to Free Software to graduate students at Queen Mary College, University of London, and is a founder editor of the Free and Open Source Software Law Review. His clients include the sponsors of major GNU/Linux distributions, the MariaDB Foundation, and a number of other prominent Free Software organisations, as well as companies seeking Free Software compliance, and startups looking for licensing advice.<br />
<b>Email:</b>Andrew.Katz [at] moorcrofts.com<br />
<b>Telephone:</b>+44 1628 470003<br />
<b>Post:</b>Moorcrofts LLP, James House, Mere Park, Dedmere Road, Marlow, Bucks SL7 1FJ.<br />
</p>

<h3>Explicitly recommended technical experts:</h3>

<p style="margin:40px">
<b>Germany</b><br />
Harald Welte is a kernel programmer, the founder of GPL-Violations.org and one of the primary engineers behind the creation of the OpenMoko Free Software telephone project.<br />
<b>Email:</b> laforge [at] gnumonks.org<br />
<br />
<b>The Netherlands</b><br />
Armijn Hemel is a system administrator and a primary member of the GPL-Violations.org team.<br />
<b>Email:</b> armijn [at] uulug.nl</p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
