<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Useful Compliance Tips For Vendors - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
<p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
  	<h1>Useful Compliance Tips For Vendors</h1>

    <p id="introduction">
      These useful tips can help you locate some common issues when
      releasing software that contains code under the GNU GPL licence.
      For a complete and authoritative guide to releasing software under
      the GNU GPL you should read the <a
      href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-faq.html">FSF's
        GNU GPL FAQ</a> and the <a
        href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-howto.html">FSF's
        HOW-TO for using the GNU GPL</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      This is not legal advice. If you have doubts consult a legal
      advisor.
    </p>


    <h2>Basic guidelines</h2>

    <ol>
      <li>
        Check if the source code of the software is available to users.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if you are the copyright holder of the software and if you
        include Free Software copyrighted by third parties make sure you
        give proper credit.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if you are distributing the correct version of the source
        code.  The source code shipped must be the same source code used
        to build the binary.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if you include the source code for any derivative works of
        the GNU GPL code you are using, not just of the third-party GNU
        GPL components themselves.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if you include the scripts used to control compilation and
        installation.
      </li>

      <li>
        If the toolchain is released and contains tools under the GNU
        GPL (like the GCC compiler), check if the source code for those
        tools is also released.
      </li>
    </ol>


    <h2>Before shipping the product</h2>

    <ol>
      <li>
        Check if your purchasing contracts require suppliers to disclose
        the presence of any GPL software.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if your suppliers provide all the materials you need to
        comply with the GNU GPL licence.
      </li>

      <li>
        It helps to ensure that if your supplier turns out to not comply
        with the GPL they agree to rectify the situation in a timely
        fashion.
      </li>
    </ol>


    <h2>Shipping the product</h2>

    <ol>
      <li>
        Check if a copy of the GNU GPL licence is shipped with the
        product.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if a copy of the source code is shipped with the product
        or that you include a written offer to provide the source code
        on a physical media like a CD ROM for no more than the cost of
        production and shipping.
      </li>

      <li>
        Remember you cannot offer a download link to the source code
        instead of a written offer to ship the source code on physical
        media.  You can supplement the written offer with a reference to
        a download site.  This may reduce the number of requests for
        source code.
      </li>

      <li>
        Remember that if you distribute binaries over the Internet you
        must host the source code on a server that you operate or that
        is operated by someone you have an explicit arrangement with.
      </li>
    </ol>

    <p>
      Don't forget to review the <a
        href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-howto.html">FSF's
        HOW-TO for using the GNU GPL</a>.  It's short, clear and explains
      exactly what you need to do when you release code under the GNU GPL
      licence.
    </p>    

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
