<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Useful Compliance Tips For Users - FSFE Legal</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/style/grid.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="ftf.css" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
<p id="category"><a href="/activities/ftf/ftf.html">Legal</a></p>
    <h1>Useful Compliance Tips For Users</h1>

    <p id="introduction">
      These tips can help you locate some common issues in software that
      contains code under the GNU GPL licence.  For detailed and
      authoritative information about the GNU GPL you should read the <a
      href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-faq.html">FSF's
        GNU GPL FAQ</a>.
    </p>

    <p>
      This is not legal advice. If you have doubts consult a legal
      advisor.
    </p>


    <h2>Basic guidelines</h2>

    <ol>
      <li>
        Check if a copy of the GNU GPL licence comes with the software.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if a copy of the source code comes with the software or
        there is a written offer to provide the source code on a
        physical media like a CD ROM for no more than the cost of
        production and shipping.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check that distributor does not claim sole copyright on the
        software if the software also contains code created by others.
      </li>
    </ol>


    <h2>More Detailed guidelines</h2>

    <ol>
      <li>
        Check if the correct version of the source code is available.
        The source code has to be exactly the same version as the
        executable (object) code provided.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if the source code includes the source for any derivative
        works of the GNU GPL code, not just of the third-party GNU GPL
        components themselves.
      </li>

      <li>
        Check if the source code includes the scripts used to control
        compilation and installation.
      </li>

      <li>
        If the toolchain is released and contains tools under the GNU
        GPL (like the GCC compiler), check if the source code for those
        tools is also available.
      </li>
    </ol>

    <p>
      If you are worried that some software you got received is not
      adhering to the terms of the GNU GPL licence you can review the <a
        href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-faq.html">FSF's
        GNU GPL FAQ</a> and the <a
        href="http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/gpl-howto.html">FSF's
        HOW-TO for using the GNU GPL</a>.  If you suspect there has been a
      violation of the GNU GPL you can <a href="contact.html">contact</a> the
      FTF and we will help you resolve the issue.
    </p>   


  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
