<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>FSF Europe - Events</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center> 
        [ 
        <!-- Please keep this list alphabetical --> 
        English | <a href="events.fr.html">French</a>
        ] 
      </center> 
      <p /> 
      <blockquote> 

	<center>

	  [ <a href="#Planned">Planned events</a> |
	  <a href="#Passed">Passed events</a> |
	  <a href="#Inviting">Invite us to your events</a> ]

	</center>

          <center><a name="Planned" /><h2>Planned events</h2></center>

  
        <p />

  
<!-- template:
   <dt><strong>Month day to day
   <br />
   City, US State or Country</strong>
   <dd>Description <cite>Talk or Conference Title</cite>.
   <blockquote><strong>Name of Place </strong><br>
   street address
   city
   </blockquote>
   The talk is open to WHOM?
   <P>
-->

<dl>

	  <dt><strong>Saturday 15th &amp; Sunday 16th September 2001</strong><br>
	       "Linux Infotage," Berlin, Germany</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd>
              Talk "Introduction into Free Software and GNU/Linux" (in German) by Georg C. F. Greve<br />
              <a href="http://www.linuxinfotage.de">http://www.linuxinfotage.de</a><br />
              <p>Free entrance.</p>
          </dd>

	  <dt><strong>Monday 24th September 2001</strong><br>
	      CEDAR meeting, Nice, France</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd><a href="http://http://www.491.org/cedar/">Free Software by Frédéric Couchet</a>
	      <p>Attention : registration fee.</p>
          </dd>

	  <dt><strong>Tuesday 25th September 2001</strong><br>
	      Free Software in Enterprises, Paris, France</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd><a href="http://www.benchmark.fr/forumlibre/">Round
	      table : «The well working free software applications » with Loïc Dachary</a>
	      <p>Attention : registration fee.</p>
          </dd>

	  <dt><strong>11-13 October 2001</strong><br>
	       "Wizards of OS," Berlin, Germany</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd>
              Free Software panel discussion with Bruce Perens, Tom Schwaller and Georg C. F. Greve<br />
              <a href="http://www.wizards-of-os.org">http://www.wizards-of-os.org</a><br />
              <p>Attention : registration fee.</p>
          </dd>

	  <dt><strong>15-19 October 2001</strong><br>
	       "LinuxPark," Systems, Munich, Germany</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd>
              <a href="http://www.systems.de/">http://www.systems.de</a><br />
              <p>Attention : registration fee.</p>
          </dd>

	  <dt><strong>Friday 26th October 2001</strong><br>
	      Journée du Libre de Montpellier, France</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd>Free Software concepts and FSF Europe presentation.
	      <p>Free entrance.</p>
          </dd>

</dl>


          <center><a name="Passed" /><h2>Passed events</h2></center>

  
        <p />


<dl>
	  <dt><strong>Sunday 26th August 2001</strong><br>
	       ICC Berlin, Hall 9, IFA, Berlin</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd>
              Talk "Copyright in the Internet Age" (in German) by Georg C. F. Greve<br />
              <a href="http://www.linuxtag.org/2001/deutsch/358.html">http://www.linuxtag.org/2001/deutsch/358.html</a><br />
              Slides available in German at: <a href="http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/IFA-2001/">http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/IFA-2001/</a><br />

          </dd><p />

	  <dt><strong>Wednesday 22th August 2001</strong><br>
	      22th Université d'Été de la Communication ("Summer School of the
	      Communication"), Hourtin, France</br>
          </dt>
	  <dd><a
		 href="http://www.crepac.com/calendrier/evenement.asp?numero=327">Round
	      table «Free Software: advantages and use» with Frédéric Couchet</a> 
              <p>Attention : registration fee.</p>
          </dd>

<dt>
<strong>Thursday 5th to Saturday 8th july 2001</strong>
<br>
GNU/<a href="http://linuxtag.org/">LinuxTag</a>, Stuttgart,
Germany</br></dt>
<dd>
Free Software and FSF Europe presentation by Georg Greve
<p>Free entrance.</p>
<p><a href="http://www.gnuhh.org/work/presentations/GNULinuxTag-2001/index.html">Slides</a></p></dd>

<dt>
<strong>Wednesday 4th to Saturday 8th july 2001</strong>
<br>
<a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">Libre Software Meeting</a>, Bordeaux,
France</br></dt>
<dd>
Free Software and FSF Europe presentation by Frédéric Couchet
<p>Free entrance.</p>
<p><a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/slides/index.html">Slides</a>, <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/lsm.html">HTML version of the slides</a> and <a
href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/lsm2001.tgz">MagicPoint source</a></p></dd>

<dt>
<strong>Wednesday 16th and Thursday 17th May, 2001, 9:00am to 5:00pm</strong>
<br>
ENST Bretagne, Brest, France</br></dt>
<dd>
FSF Europe Booth, and presentation of the FSF Europe on may 16th at
5:30pm by Loïc Dachary. Please see <a
href="http://libre.enst-bretagne.fr/LibreEtVieLocale">Libre et Vie
Locale</a> for more details, as well as <a
href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-16-01.en.html">our report</a>.
</dd><p />

<dt>
<strong>Thursday 1st February 2001</strong>
<br>
GNU/<a href="http://www.linuxexpoparis.com/">LinuxExpo</a>, Paris,
France</br></dt>
<dd>
FSF Europe presentation by Georg Greve
<p>Free entrance.</p>
<p><a href="http://www.gnuhh.org/work/presentations/Paris-2001/index.html">Slides</a></p></dd>

</dl>



        <p /> 
          <center><a name="Inviting" /><h2>Invite a FSF Europe representative to your events</h2></center>

        <p>If you wish to invite a speaker who can represent the FSF
        Europe and/or the Free Software Movement at a conference,
        event or panel discussion, please see <a
        href="../speakers/speakers.html">the speakers page</a> .</p>

        <p />
      </blockquote> 

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->





