<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"> 
	<head> 
		<title>FSF Europe - Passed Events in 2001</title> 
	</head> 
	<body> 

	<div> <!-- The header will be inserted here --> 
		<center> 
			[ 
			<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical --> 
			<a href="passed-2001.de.html">Deutsch</a> |
			English | 
			<a href="passed-2001.fr.html">Français</a> 
			] 
		</center> 

		<center>
			<h2>Passed events</h2>
		</center> 

		<dl> 
			<dt>
				<b>15-19 October 2001</b><br/> 
				"LinuxPark", Systems, Munich, Germany<br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					<a href="http://www.systems.de/">http://www.systems.de</a><br/>
				</p>
				<p>
					Attention: registration fee.
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt> 
				<b>October 24, 2001</b><br/> 
				<a href="http://www.linuxday.lu/">LinuxDays Luxembourg</a><br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd>
				<p>
					Presentation of FSF Europe by Fédéric Couchet. 
				</p>
				<p>
					Free entrance.
				</p>
			</dd> 

			<dt>
				<b>October 11-13, 2001</b><br> 
				<a href="http://www.wizards-of-os.org/">Wizards of OS</a>, Berlin, Germany</br> 
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					Free Software panel discussion with Bruce Perens, Tom Schwaller and Georg C. F. Greve
				</p> 
				<p>
					Attention: registration fee.
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt> 
				<b>Friday, October 12, 2001, Porto, Portugal</b><br/> 
				<a href="http://www.cidadetecnologica.org/workshops.htm">Porto Cidade Tecnológica 2001</a><br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					A Free Software conference. It will be the opportunity to inaugurate the creation of ANSOL, 
					a non-profit organization to promote Free Software. Bradley M. Kuhn, Vice President FSF 
					and Loïc Dachary, Vice President FSF Europe will speak about Free Software.
				</p> 
				<p>
					Free Entrance.
				</p> 
				<ul> 
					<li><a href="http://www.digito.pt/tecnologia/noticias/tec4584.html">Digito Article</a></li> 
				</ul>
				<p/> 
			</dd> 

			<dt>
				<b>Tuesday, September 25, 2001</b><br/> 
				Free Software in Enterprises, Paris, France<br/> 
			</dt> 
			<dd>
				<p>
					<a href="http://www.benchmark.fr/forumlibre/">Round table: "Applications that work"</a> 
					with Loïc Dachary
				</p> 
				<p>
					Attention: registration fee.
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt>
				<b>Monday, September 24, 2001</b><br/> 
				CEDAR meeting, Nice, France<br/> 
			</dt> 
			<dd>
				<p>
					<a href="http://www.491.org/cedar/">Free Software</a> by Frédéric Couchet
				</p> 
				<p>
					Attention: registration fee.
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt>
				<b>Saturday and Sunday, September 15-16, 2001</b><br/> 
				<a href="http://www.linuxinfotage.de/">Linux Infotage</a>, Berlin, Germany<br/> 
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					Talk "Introduction into Free Software and GNU/Linux" (in German) by Georg C. F. Greve
				</p>
				<p>
					Free entrance.
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt>
				<b>Sunday, August 26, 2001</b><br/> 
				ICC Berlin, Hall 9, IFA, Berlin<br/> 
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p> 
					Talk "Copyright in the Internet Age" (in German) by Georg C. F. Greve<br/> 
					<a href="http://www.linuxtag.org/2001/deutsch/358.html">http://www.linuxtag.org/2001/deutsch/358.html</a><br/> 
					Slides available in German at: <a href="http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/IFA-2001/">http://gnuhh.org/work/presentations/IFA-2001/</a><br/>
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt>
				<b>Wednesday, August 22, 2001</b><br/> 
				22th Université d'Été de la Communication ("Summer School of Communications"), Hourtin, France<br/> 
			</dt> 
			<dd>
				<p>
					<a href="http://www.crepac.com/calendrier/evenement.asp?numero=327">Round table "Free Software: 
						advantages and use"</a> with Frédéric Couchet
				</p> 
				<p>
					Attention: registration fee.
				</p> 
			</dd> 

			<dt> 
				<b>Thursday to Saturday, July 5-8, 2001</b><br/>
				GNU/<a href="http://linuxtag.org/">LinuxTag</a>, Stuttgart, Germany<br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					Free Software and FSF Europe presentation by Georg Greve
					(<a href="http://www.gnuhh.org/work/presentations/GNULinuxTag-2001/index.html">Slides</a>)
				</p>
				<p>
					Free entrance.
				</p>
			</dd> 

			<dt> 
				<b>Wednesday to Saturday, July 4-8, 2001</b> <br/> 
				<a href="http://lsm.abul.org/">Libre Software Meeting</a>, Bordeaux, France<br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					Free Software and FSF Europe presentation by Frédéric Couchet
				</p>
				<p>
					Free entrance.
				</p> 
				<p>
					<a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/slides/index.html">Slides</a>, 
					<a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/lsm.html">HTML version of the slides</a> and 
					<a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/events/lsm2001/lsm2001.tgz">MagicPoint source</a>
				</p>
			</dd> 

			<dt> 
				<b>Wednesday and Thursday, May 16-17, 2001</b><br/> 
				ENST Bretagne, Brest, France<br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd>
				<p>
					FSF Europe Booth, and presentation of the FSF Europe on may 16th at 5:30pm by Loïc 
					Dachary. Please see 
					<a href="http://libre.enst-bretagne.fr/LibreEtVieLocale">Libre et Vie Locale</a> 
					for more details, as well as 
					<a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-05-16-01.en.html">our report</a>.
				</p>
			</dd>

			<dt> 
				<b>Thursday, February 1, 2001</b><br/> 
				GNU/<a href="http://www.linuxexpoparis.com/">LinuxExpo</a>, Paris, France<br/>
			</dt> 
			<dd> 
				<p>
					FSF Europe presentation by Georg Greve
					(<a href="http://www.gnuhh.org/work/presentations/Paris-2001/index.html">Slides</a>)
				</p> 
				<p>
					Free entrance.
				</p> 
			</dd>
		</dl>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->





