<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="en"> 
	<head> 
		<title>FSF Europe - Passed Events in 2002</title> 
	</head> 
	<body> 

	<div> <!-- The header will be inserted here --> 
		<center>
			<h2>Passed events in 2002</h2>
		</center> 

		<dl> 

      <dt>
      <b>May 29th &amp; 30th, 2002 </b><br/> 
      <a href="http://www.linuxexpobirmingham.com">Linux-Expo</a>, Birmingham, UK<br/>
    </dt> 
      <dd>
      <p>
      Round table for Free Software with Georg Greve and Richard Stallman
    </p>
      <p>	
      Entrance Fee.
    </p>
    </dd>

      <dt>
      <b>Wednesday, May 8th, 2002</b><br/> 
      Colloquium at the University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany<br/>
    </dt> 
      <dd>
      <p>
      Talk by Georg Greve: &quot;Urheberrecht, Lizenzen und die FSF: Der Unterbau Freier Software&quot; [in German]
    </p>
      <p>	
      Free Entrance.
    </p>
    </dd>

      <dt>
      <b>Saturday, May 4th, 2002</b><br/> 
      &quot;hiroshima mon amour&quot; cultural center, Torino, Italy<br/>
    </dt> 
      <dd>
      <p>
      Introduction to Free Software and the FSF Europe by Georg Greve
    </p>
      <p>	
      Free Entrance.
    </p>
    </dd>

      <dt>
      <b>May 2nd &amp; 3rd, 2002</b><br/> 
      <a href="http://www.linux-verband.de/syn2002/">LIVE Synergie</a>, Würzburg, Germany<br/>
    </dt> 
      <dd>
      <p>
      Introduction to the FSF Europe by Georg Greve [in German].
    </p>
      <p>	
      Registration Fee.
    </p>
    </dd>

	<dt> 
	  <b>Thursday, May 30, 2002</b><br/> 
	  <a
	    href="http://www.utbm.fr">Université de Technologie de Belfort-Montbéliard</a>, Belforg, France<br/>
	</dt> 
	<dd> 
	  <p>
	    A speech about free software, software patents by Frédéric Couchet. <br/>
	  </p> 
	</dd> 


	<dt> 
	  <b>Friday, April 26, 2002</b><br/> 
	  <a href="http://www.lilit.be/">First LiLiT meeting</a>, Liège, Belgium<br/>
	</dt> 
	<dd> 
	  <p>
	    Conference.<br/>
	  </p>
	  <p>
	    Talk about Free Software and hacktivism by Loïc Dachary.
	  </p>
	  <p>
	    Free Entrance.
	  </p> 
	</dd> 

	<dt> 
	  <b>Saturday, March 2, 2002</b><br/> 
	  <a
	    href="http://www.solidarite.asso.fr/actualites/colloque_prg.htm">Colloque
	    Après Développement</a>, Paris, France<br/>
	</dt> 
	<dd> 
	  <p>
	    A speech about free
	    software by Frédéric Couchet. <br/>
	  </p> 
	  <p>
	    Free entrance.
	  </p> 
	</dd> 


	<dt> 
	  <b>Thursday, February 28, 2002</b><br/> 
	  <a
	    href="http://www.macif.fr">MACIF</a>, Niort, France<br/>
	</dt> 
	<dd> 
	  <p>
	    A speech about free software by Frédéric Couchet. <br/>
	  </p> 
	</dd> 


	<dt> 
	  <b>Tuesday, February 5, 2002</b><br/> 
	  <a
	    href="http://www.legalis.net">Free
	    software : warranty
	    and liability</a>, Paris, France<br/>
	</dt> 
	<dd> 
	  <p>
	    Panel discussion.<br/>
	  </p> 
	  <p>
	    Free entrance.
	  </p> 
	</dd> 


	<dt> 
	  <b>Jan 30th - February 1st, 2002</b><br/> <a
	  href="http://www.linuxexpoparis.com">Linux Expo Paris</a>,
	  Paris, France<br/> </dt> <dd>
	  <p>
      APRIL, FSF and FSF Europe booth<br/>
    </p>
	  <p>
	    Free entrance.
	  </p> 
	</dd> 

		</dl>

<!-- End page content -->

    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Updated:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->





