<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>FSFE Projects Call Submission</title>
  </head>

  <body>    
    <h1>FSFE Project Call Submission</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
        With this call you can apply for FSFE support for your local project or activity.
      </p>
    </div>

    <p>
      Fields marked with <strong>*</strong> are mandatory. The better information you provide, the easier the evaluation. Thank you!
    </p>
    
    <p>If you have any questions, read our <a href="#submission-details">detailed information section</a> below and fill-in the form afterwards. </p>

    <form class="form-horizontal" action="https://forms.fsfe.org/email" method="POST" >
      <input type="hidden" name="appid" value="group-projects" />

      <h2>Your contact data</h2>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="name" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Your full name *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="name" name="name" required="required" />
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="confirm" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Your email *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="email" class="form-control" id="confirm" name="confirm" required="required" />
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="localgroup" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Group Name</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="localgroup" name="localgroup" />
        </div>
      </div>
      
      <p>Read our <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/TechDocs/DataProcessingTransparency#line-23">Privacy Policy</a>.</p>

      <h2>Project Facts</h2>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="deliverables" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Please describe your project output(s) (Deliverables) *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <textarea class="form-control" id="deliverables" name="deliverables" rows="5" required="required"></textarea>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="team" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Who will be involved in the project? *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <textarea class="form-control" id="team" name="team" rows="5" required="required"></textarea>
        </div>
      </div>

      <h2>Project Duration</h2>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="date_start" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Start date *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="date" class="form-control" id="date_start" name="date_start" required="required" />
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="date_end" class="col-sm-3 control-label">End date *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="date" class="form-control" id="date_end" name="date_end" required="required" />
        </div>
      </div>

      <h2>Project Budget</h2>

      <p>Please note that the FSFE can cover only external costs. No working hours can be covered.</p>

      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="cost_list" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Please list all planned gross external costs *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <textarea class="form-control" id="cost_list" name="cost_list" rows="5" required="required"></textarea>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div class="form-group">
        <label for="cost_total" class="col-sm-3 control-label">Total expected gross external costs *</label>
        <div class="col-sm-5">
          <input type="text" class="form-control" id="cost_total" name="cost_total" required="required" />
        </div>
      </div>

      <div class="form-group">
        <div class="col-sm-offset-3 col-sm-5">
          <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Submit Project</button>
        </div>
      </div>

    </form>
    
    <h2 id="submission-details">Submission details and background</h2>
    
    <p>This section is here to help you to understand what kind of information we are looking for to evaluate our support and what kind of projects are eligible to be funded.</p>
    
    <h3>Your contact data</h3>
    <div style="margin-left:2em">
    <p><strong>Your full name:</strong> Write your full name here.</p>
		<p><strong>Your email:</strong>  please provide an email here for us to get in contact. Please note that only @fsfe-email-addresses are eligible for funding. This is because our project funding is available for FSFE community members in particular and not for other community projects. If you are a supporter, contributor or volunteer for the FSFE but you have for any reasons not yet a @fsfe-account, please <a href="mailto:contact@fsfe.org">get in contact with us</a> and we figure this out : )</p>
		<p><strong>Group Name:</strong> this could be an individual name or a generic name like "Local group Brussels". In case you apply for individual support leave this field blank or write "none". </p>
		</div>
    
    <h3>Project Facts</h3>
    <div style="margin-left:2em">
		<p><strong>Please describe your project output(s):</strong> As the name implies, please tell us what is the project about and what will be the deliverables in the end. Please take some time for a description of your project, that enables us to understand it without knowing the context before. Usually this implies to give us information about its background, any previous activities or a local context in which it operates. There is neither need to exaggerate nor to write us multiple pages with a detailed project management plan. All we like to read is: WHAT is planned to happen, with which RESOURCES, in what CONTEXT and potential GOALS you like to achieve. Once we are convinced, we will discuss all other relevant details together.</p>
		
		<p>In the following two examples for you to help you understand what is sufficient as a project description:</p>
		
		<p><strong><em>Example 1:</em></strong><br />
        <em>"The local group Brussels is planning a public debate with the local governor of the "Digital Smart Brussels" project and our group coordinator Jon Doe. We are going to invite local FSFE supporters via the FSFE channels and decision-takers from the larger area of Brussels. The room we rent is in the city center, can host 80 people and will cost 220 Euro for rent. Besides we put up an information booth and need up-to-date material for this. As a moderator we like to invite Jane Doe, who is professor for Digital Transformation at the Université Libre de Bruxelles and asks for 60 Euro transportation costs.<br />Goal is to spread the word about the potentials of Public Money? Public Code! in the current "Smart City" consultations of the Brussels city government via the public debate. People and decision-takers should be informed about the benefits Free Software to take smart decisions. Second goal is to promote our local group via the information booth, so we potentially attract new members."</em></p>
        
        <p><strong><em>Example 2:</em></strong><br />
        <em>"I like to send 50 I love Free Software letters to my local politicians in Paris. I created a draft that I can send you on request and need 100 Euro for the prints, letters and stamps. Goal is to give the local government a positive impact on Free Software shortly before they do a consultation round regarding the public procurement of their IT systems."</em></p>
		
		<p><strong>Who will be involved in the project:</strong> Please list the people or groups that will be involved in the project and if you think it is helpful their roles and competencies.</p>
	</div>
	
	 <h3>Project Duration</h3> 
	 <div style="margin-left:2em">
		<p>Please give us a start and an end date of your project. If your project covers a longer period of time, use the dates to give us a rough idea from when to when.</p>
		</div>
    
    
     <h3>Your contact data</h3>
     <div style="margin-left:2em">
		<p><strong> Please list all planned gross external costs:</strong> As the name implies, please list all external costs in a bullet point list. If you end up to need more money you can do a follow-up request. If you need less money, everyone is happy. As a tip, do calculate realistically and then add 10% on top to avoid having to do a follow-up request in case you just exceeded your realistic calculations for some Euro. </p>
		
		<p> Taken the examples above this would be:</p>
		
		<p><strong><em>Example 1:</em></strong><br />
			<ul>
				<li>booking the room A301 in "Green Corner" in "Rue Europeenne 23/b" on June 5 for 2 hours from 20:00 to 22:00: 220 Euro</li>
				<li>Covering transportation costs for Jane Doe, professor for Digital Transformation who is moderating the debate: 60 Euro</li>
				<li>Offer Water and snacks for participants: 60 Euro</li>
			</ul>
			Please also send us package with up-to-date information material from the FSFE for our booth.</p>
		<p><strong> Total expected gross external costs:</strong> 375 Euro (including a 10% flexibility)</p>
		
		<p><strong><em>Example 2:</em></strong><br />
			<ul>
				<li>20 Euro for 50 letter-cases</li>
				<li>30 Euro for printing 50 ilovefs-letters in color</li>
				<li>50 Euro for stamps to send 50 letters.</li>
			</ul>
			Please also send us package with up-to-date information material from the FSFE for our booth.</p>
		<p><strong>Total expected gross external costs:</strong> 100 Euro</p>
		</div>
	
    

  </body>
  
</html>
