<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html>

<head>
	<Title>The economy of knowledge in the 21st century</Title>
</head>

<h1>The economy of knowledge in the 21st century</h1>
<body>
<p><div class="p-summary">Our economic and social development has always been based on the freedom
to use, study, share and improve common knowledge and  information.</div></p>
	
	<p>Since entering the digital era, however, the freedoms to access and use
	knowledge is strongly linked with the access to technology and software.
	Furthermore, access and use of our cultural heritage, economic
	development, as well as our social and political organisation, is
	increasingly based on technology and software. In the 21st century,
	access to software determines how we can participate in our society.</p> 
	 
	<p>To achieve equal access, increase welfare and promote freedom of choice
	for everyone, we need to guarantee the same freedoms we used to have 
	for knowledge, and apply them to software. These freedoms are true for
	Software Libre: the freedom to <strong>use</strong> it for every purpose,to <strong>study</strong> its
	source code, to <strong>share</strong> it with your neighbor or anyone else, and to 
	<strong>improve</strong> and republish the software at will. By using and developing 
	Software Libre, the  Spanish state can benefit from these freedoms to
	achieve digital autonomy, foster local economies and increase
	technological and intellectual welfare for the people.</p>

	<p>For the national elections in 2015, <a href="/quienes-somos/">we unite as a collective of
	non-governmental and non-profit charity organisations</a> to move Spain
	forward into the freedom of the digital era. With this campaign we ask
	political candidates of all parties to sign a pact for Free Software: 
	This pact invites the government to be a key player in the spread and
	development of Software Libre, it encourages the use of Free Software
	in public bodies and institutions, and it aims to maximize the 
	technological benefits of Free Software in Spanish
	society and economy.</p>
	
	<p><a href="beneficios-software-libre">Leer sobre los beneficios des Software Libre</a></p>
	<p><a href="leer-el-pacto">Leer el pacto</a>
	<a href="/firmar-el-pacto-como-politico">Firmar el pacto como politico</a>
	<a href="/firmar-el-pacto-asi-mismo">Firmar el pacto como votante</a></p>
</body>
</html>
