<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
<head>
	<title>FSFE for Freedom not Fear</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE for Freedom not Fear</h1>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) supports Free Software so that
every citizen can play an independent, active and responsible part in our
information society. However, censorship of content, violations of the
principle of 'Net Neutrality' and increasing online surveillance do not fit
with these goals.  FSFE is therefore appealing for participation in the
world-wide day of action <a
href="http://www.vorratsdatenspeicherung.de/content/view/242/144/lang,en/">"Freedom
Not Fear"</a>, which takes place this Saturday, the 11th October.</p>

<p>"Free Software grants us the right to use such software for any purpose, to
study it, to adapt it to our needs and to release improved versions to the
public. However, if our civil rights are more and more curtailed by
questionable legislation, we may end up with the absurd situation that we
cannot make use of these four freedoms without breaking the law", warns
Matthias Kirschner, German Deputy Coordinator for FSFE.</p>

<p>In Germany, the main demonstration for "Freedom Not Fear" day starts at
14:00 at Alexanderplatz in Berlin, Germany.  The event is organised by AK
Vorrat (<a href="http://www.vorratsdatenspeicherung.de/">German Working Group
on Data Retention</a>) and is being supported by over one hundred organisations
in Germany alone.  Demonstrations are also taking place in 21 other countries
around the world, such as in the cities of Paris, Stockholm, London, Sofia and
Luxembourg, among many others. Artistic events related to the day of action
will take place in Rome and Zürich, and discussion events are planned for
Washington, D.C.  In the Netherlands, events are taking place under the banner
of <a href="http://www.volksopstand2008.nl/">"Volksopstand 2008"</a> (Peoples'
Revolt 2008).  In The Hague, a demonstration is planned in the square front of
the second chamber of the Dutch Parliament, and afterwards various related
activities such as a 'privacy market' and discussion workshops will take
place.</p>

<p>More information on events planned worldwide can be found on the <a
href="http://wiki.vorratsdatenspeicherung.de/Freedom_Not_Fear_2008/International_actions_overview">"Freedom
Not Fear" web site</a>.</p>


<h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-governmental
organisation active in many European countries and involved in many global
activities. Access to software determines participation in a digital society.
To secure equal participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is
dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use,
study, modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>You will find further information about the work of the FSFE at <a
href="/">http://fsfeurope.org/</a>.</p>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7</li>
</ul>

<p><a href="/contact/contact.html">Other ways to get in touch</a> with the
FSFE.</p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
