<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
<head>
	<title>Happy Birthday To GNU! — The FSFE Celebrates the GNU Project's 25th
	Birthday!</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Happy Birthday To GNU! — The FSFE Celebrates the GNU Project's 25th
Birthday!</h1>

<p>Today marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of the initial announcement of the
<a href="http://www.gnu.org">GNU Project</a>, a pioneering initiative to
develop an operating system that gives all users the freedom to modify it and
publish modified versions, individually or working together. The Free Software
Foundation Europe (FSFE) commends the substantial achievements of GNU's first
quarter-century and looks forward to furthering their shared goal of
facilitating software freedoms.</p>

<p>27th September 2008 — 25 years ago today, the GNU Project was launched
by Richard M. Stallman with the goal of creating an entire operating system
that anyone was free to use, study, share and improve. These freedoms grant all
users the independence and flexibility to use their computer for any purpose,
without the artificial restrictions which proprietary software imposes, such as
vendor lock-in, proprietary file formats and Digital Restrictions Management
(DRM). From its humble origins in the Artificial Intelligence Lab at MIT, GNU
has grown to be one of the most popular operating systems in the world and
fostered the development of thousands of other Free Software applications.</p>

<p>The Free Software Foundation (FSFE's sister organisation based in Boston,
MA) was founded in 1985 to promote the core idea behind Stallman's GNU Project:
that the freedom to examine, modify, copy, and share software is essential for
a just, free society. Much of the work was done between 1983 and 1991, and this
laid the groundwork for many third-party projects which later also brought
these freedoms to computer users. The operating system was completed in 1992 by
the third-party development of a core component called "Linux". The success of
GNU/Linux operating system encouraged the development of many other Free
Software projects such as Firefox, KDE and OpenOffice.org. Today, there are
hundreds of GNU/Linux distributions in the world, powering millions of
computers ranging from web servers and kitchen appliances to cellphones and
laptops.</p>

<p>"The contributions of the GNU project to the computing world are difficult
to overstate", says Georg C. F. Greve, President of the Free Software
Foundation Europe (FSFE). "For the first time there was an awareness of Free
Software, and the concept of Copyleft revolutionised the way in which freedom
is spread and protected. Both intellectual achievements laid the groundwork for
the immense success of GNU/Linux, which has meanwhile established itself as the
primary competitor to proprietary operating systems across the gamut of
computing, from large-scale scientific research to affordable consumer laptops.
In so doing GNU was at the root of giving users control over their computing
environment and data."</p>

<p>The FSFE was established in 2001 to further the political and social goals
that also provide the basis of the GNU Project, and to support the flourishing
European Free Software community. "The FSFE works closely with its partners
around Europe and beyond to ensure that the spirit of Stallman's original
announcement is backed up with practise, and works to promote awareness of the
Free Software message", explains Shane Coughlan, coordinator of the FSFE's
Freedom Task Force.</p>

<p>More and more countries are turning to Free Software for use in the public
sector and education. While many businesses have long been using and
contributing to Free Software in order to gain marketplace advantages and cost
savings, governments are increasingly realising the benefits of Free Software
in terms of sovereignty, transparency, and self-determination. By its very
nature of promoting sharing, collaboration, and sustainability, Free Software
ensures that all users have the ability to determine and shape their computing
future.</p>

<h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-governmental
organisation active in many European countries and involved in many global
activities. Access to software determines participation in a digital society.
To secure equal participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is
dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use,
study, modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>You will find further information about the work of the FSFE at <a
href="/">http://fsfeurope.org/</a>.</p>

<h2>Notes for editors</h2>

<ul>

	<li>The GNU Project seeks to enable and maintain the four <em>fundamental
	freedoms</em> of software: to run software "for any purpose", to study and
	adapt software according to individual needs, to distribute copies of the
	software, and to improve the software, sharing the benefits with
	others.</li>

	<li>The GNU Project pioneered the concept of <em>copyleft</em> licensing,
	which preserves fundamental software freedoms by using copyright to enforce
	the sharing of derivative software under the same license as original
	software.</li>

</ul>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7</li>
</ul>

<p><a href="/contact/contact.html">Other ways to get in touch</a> with the
FSFE.</p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
