<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - News - FSFE context briefing: Interoperability woes with MS-OOXML</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>FSFE context briefing: Interoperability woes with MS-OOXML</h1>

<p>Released at 11:15, 5-3-2008.</p>

<p>FSFE has released a context briefing that highlights three examples of how 
the proposed MS-OOXML specification and its practical implementation in 
MS Office 2007 hinders interoperability, fosters vendor dependence and 
results in market distortion.  The proposed MS-OOXML/DIS29500 specification 
continues to raise serious technical and legal concerns.</p>

<p>At the recent ISO Ballot Resolution Meeting for the proposed specification 
more than 1,000 technical concerns and proposed dispositions required 
discussion.  Participants were only able to discuss between 20 to 30 
dispositions and to accept approximately 200 minor editorial corrections 
in the allocated time.  Around 900 dispositions were not discussed.</p>

<p>"The standardisation process is being tested quite extensively by this," says 
Shane Coughlan, FSFE's legal coordinator.  "It is important that standards are 
open and do not exclude anyone.  Interoperability and access are not optional 
components of a fair digital society."</p>

<p>FSFE's perspective is that there is only one reasonable response by national 
bodies: move DIS29500 out of the FastTrack process by voting "DISAPPROVE, with 
comments" and suggest methods of handling the proposed specification through 
the normal ISO process, ideally by convergence into ISO/IEC 26300, the Open 
Document Format (ODF).</p>

<ul>
<li>Read the <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/documents/msooxml-interoperability">context briefing</a> online.</li>
<li>Download a <a href="http://fsfeurope.org/documents/msooxml-interoperability.pdf">PDF copy</a> of the context briefing (1.3M)</li>
</ul>

<p>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</p>

<p class="aboutfsfe">The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
non-governmental organisation active in many European countries and
involved in many global activities. Access to software determines
participation in a digital society.  To secure equal participation in
the information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free
Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the
furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study,
modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people
Freedom by supporting development of Free Software are central issues
of the FSFE.</p>

<p>Contact:</p>

<address>You can reach the FSFE switchboard from:<br />
    Belgium:     +32 2 747 03 57 ext 408<br />
    Germany:     +49 700 373 38 76 73 ext 408<br />
    Sweden:      +46 31 7802160 ext 408<br />
    Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66 ext 408<br />
    UK:          +44 29 200 08 17 7 ext 408 </address>

<address>Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator,  FSFE extension: 408</address>
<address>Further information: http://fsfeurope.org</address>
</body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
