<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - News - Google helps FSFE's Freedom Task Force to deliver training, attend conferences and translate documents</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Google helps FSFE's Freedom Task Force to deliver training, attend conferences and translate documents</h1>

<p>Google has made a donation to assist FSFE's Freedom Task Force with
delivering training courses, attending conferences and localising
documents.</p>

<p>"The Freedom Task Force is working to foster effective legal
infrastructure for Free Software in Europe.  A great deal of our work is
based on engaging directly with people and Google's contribution will
allow us to do this more effectively," says Shane Coughlan, FTF
Coordinator.  "Training, physical presence in countries and providing
materials in local languages are essential aspects of building a
coherent pan-European community."</p>

<p>"Free Software Foundation Europe has been working to promote and protect
Free Software in Europe for many years and the Freedom Task Force is a
good example of their long-term approach to supporting the community,"
says Jeremy Allison, Member of the Technical Staff - Software Engineer,
Google.  "I believe that they are doing useful work and I'm proud to see
Google supporting their activities."</p>

<p>FSFE's Freedom Task Force helps individuals, projects and businesses
understand Free Software licensing and the opportunities that it
presents.  The activities of the FTF includes providing training
courses, consultancy and operating a European Legal and Technical
Network.  It fosters best practice throughout the European Free Software
community.</p>

<p>The FTF is operated on a non-profit basis under the auspices of Free
Software Foundation Europe.</p>

<p>For more information about the FTF or the first European Licensing and
Legal Workshop please contact Shane Coughlan:</p>

<address>The Freedom Task Force can be found at <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/"
title="Freedom Task Force">http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/</a><br />
The Freedom Task Force can be emailed at ftf at fsfeurope.org</address>

<p>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</p>

<p class="aboutfsfe">The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
non-governmental organisation active in many European countries and
involved in many global activities. Access to software determines
participation in a digital society.  To secure equal participation in
the information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free
Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the
furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study,
modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people
Freedom by supporting development of Free Software are central issues
of the FSFE.</p>

<p>Contact:</p>

<address>You can reach the FSFE switchboard from:<br />
    Belgium:     +32 2 747 03 57 ext 408<br />
    Germany:     +49 700 373 38 76 73 ext 408<br />
    Sweden:      +46 31 7802160 ext 408<br />
    Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66 ext 408<br />
    UK:          +44 29 200 08 17 7 ext 408 </address>

<address>Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator,  FSFE extension: 408</address>
<address>Further information: http://fsfeurope.org</address>
</body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
