<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2008-12-10">
<head>
<title>FSFE adds Fellowship representation to General Assembly</title>
</head>
<body>


<h1>FSFE adds Fellowship representation to General Assembly</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">Today FSFE is announcing
its <a href="/about/legal/constitution.html">revised constitution</a>,
adding two Fellowship Seats to its General Assembly. This will give
Fellows of FSFE a direct representation in FSFE's strategic decision
making body.</p>

<p>The <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org">Fellowship</a> is FSFE's
larger community. Launched in 2005, it provides a meeting place with
regular online and offline activities, a framework for activity and
cooperation, a migration path into the organisation, and one of the
most important ways of supporting FSFE's work in all areas, providing
both resources and political support.  Now the Fellowship also
provides a path into the General Assembly.</p>

<p>In early 2009, FSFE will post a call for nominations among all Fellows
who have been with the organisation for at least a year. Before the
next convening of the General Assembly, candidates will come up for
election among all Fellows in time for the first Fellowship Seat to be
filled. The second seat will be defined the year after. Those elected
will serve a two year term and there will thus be one election per
year from now on.</p>

<p>The required constitutional change to allow for this was prepared
after the 2007 General Assembly and adopted unanimously by the eight
members of the GA represented at FSFE's 2008 annual meeting from June
6th to 8th in the FSFE Zurich office.</p>

<p>Georg Greve, FSFE's President, commented: "We were convinced that we
should introduce an element of accountability towards and strategic
involvement of the Fellows in FSFE. More than an advisor or an
observer, we wanted this involvement to be as an equal. Of course we
were eager to put this into practice soon, but constitutional changes
should never be taken lightly since a hasty change could have severe
consequences. So we did it as fast as our responsibility to FSFE
allowed and are glad we got it done now so that next year's General
Assembly meeting will already be with the first Fellow."</p>

<p>Matthias Kirschner, the Fellowship Coordinator added "Because this is
the first year, we're going to have to work hard to give the Fellows a
way to get to know each other.  Each candidate will have a platform,
so it will be possible for the voters to know them, but we also want
the candidates to know the voters.  As well as improving the technical
infrastructure on fsfe.org, we'll be increasing the number of regional
Fellowship meetings in the coming months."</p>

<p>Pablo Machon, FSFE's Vice President, said: "We modelled our voting
system on that used by Debian.  It's a well tested method and has
proven to be resistant to voting anomalies.  To be a candidate,
someone has to have been a Fellow for one year already.  This is
because we want the Fellowship representative to know the organisation
and what it's like to be a Fellow.  For voting, all Fellows can vote
as soon as they sign up."</p>


<h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-governmental
organisation active in many European countries and involved in many global
activities. Access to software determines participation in a digital society.
To secure equal participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is
dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use,
study, modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>You will find further information about the work of the FSFE at <a
href="http://fsfe.org">http://fsfe.org</a>.</p>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7</li>
</ul>

<p><a href="/contact/contact.html">Other ways to get in touch</a> with the
FSFE.</p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
