<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2008-12-08">
<head>
	<title>FTF and gpl-violations release a guide to reporting and fixing licence violations</title>
</head>
<body>


<h1>FTF and gpl-violations release a guide to reporting and fixing licence violations</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">FSFE's Freedom Task Force (FTF) and GPL-Violations.org today released a guide to reporting and fixing licence compliance issues. This guide will help users and developers to deal with license violation reports. It explains how to make a report, what information is useful to include, and offers suggestions for how projects or businesses can deal with reports once they are received.</p>

<p><a href="/activities/ftf/reporting-fixing-violations.html">The guide</a> is released as part of the strategic partnership between the FTF and GPL-Violations.org, who work together to improve licensing awareness and compliance in Europe.  It is located on the new FTF website, <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/">http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/</a>, along with information on how projects and businesses can get help with understanding Free Software licences.  Translations into several European languages will be made available during coming weeks from the FTF website.</p>

<p>"The best way to solve compliance issues is to prevent them happening in the first place", says Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator. "We work to support this by educating the community at large. When problems do occur, we want people to be able to share information and resolve them effectively."</p>

<h2>About the Freedom Task Force</h2>

   <p>The Freedom Task Force is a project run by Free Software Foundation 
   Europe to help people understand Free Software licensing and the 
   opportunities it presents.  We offer educational services, facilitate 
   larger infrastructure activities and manage FSFE's legal affairs.  
   Our goals are to share knowledge about Free Software law, to 
   safeguard the interests of Free Software projects, to connect experts 
   in this field and to help other groups achieve similar goals.  We 
   believe in positive, constructive dialogue and seek at all times to 
   support the long-term sustainability of Free Software.</p>

<p>The FTF's homepage can be found at <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf">http://fsfeurope.org/ftf</a></p>
<p>You can contact us via email: ftf @ fsfeurope.org</p>

<h2>You can phone us at:</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium:     +32 2 747 03 57	Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Germany:     +49 700 373 38 76 73	Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Sweden:      +46 31 7802160		Ext. 22</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66	Ext. 22</li>
	<li>UK:          +44 29 200 08 17 7	Ext. 22</li>
</ul>

   <p>Press contact: Shane Coughlan, FTF Coordinator,  FSFE extension: 408</p>


<h2>About gpl-violations.org</h2>

   <p>In the past 40 months, gpl-violations.org has helped uncover and
   negotiate more than 100 GPL violations and has obtained numerous
   out-of-court settlement agreements. The gpl-violations.org project
   is a not-for-profit effort to bring commercial users and vendors of
   Free Software into compliance with the licence conditions as set
   forth by the original authors.  The project was founded and is
   managed by Mr. Harald Welte, a Linux Kernel developer and Free
   Software enthusiast.</p>

   <p>For more information on the project, its mission, milestones and
   goals, please see <a
href="http://gpl-violations.org">http://gpl-violations.org</a></p>

<h2>About the Free Software Foundation Europe</h2>

<p>The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit non-governmental
organisation active in many European countries and involved in many global
activities. Access to software determines participation in a digital society.
To secure equal participation in the information age, as well as freedom of
competition, the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is
dedicated to the furthering of Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use,
study, modify and copy. Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues,
securing Free Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<p>You will find further information about the work of the FSFE at <a
href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/">http://www.fsfeurope.org/</a>.</p>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<ul>
	<li>Belgium: +32 2 747 03 57</li>
	<li>Germany: +49 700 373 38 76 73</li>
	<li>Sweden: +46 31 7802160</li>
	<li>Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66</li>
	<li>UK: +44 29 200 08 17 7</li>
</ul>

<p><a href="/contact/contact.html">Other ways to get in touch</a> with the
FSFE.</p>

</body>
	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
