<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - News - FSFE announces the first European Licensing and Legal Workshop for Free Software</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>FSFE announces the first European Licensing and Legal Workshop for Free Software</h1>

<p>FSFE's Freedom Task Force today announces the first European Licensing and 
Legal Workshop for Free Software will be held on Friday the 11th of April in 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  The venue for this meeting is the 
InterContinental Amstel Hotel.</p>

<p>The event is targeted towards large projects and medium to large enterprises 
wishing to discuss their existing licence compliance processes.  Parties 
attending are expected to contribute to issues ranging from process 
development through to optimising purchasing contract language for the 
benefit of the European Free Software community.</p>

<p>Harald Welte and Armijn Hemel will be attending to represent 
gpl-violations.org, and Dr. Till Jaeger will deliver a talk on licence 
enforcement.  Ciaran O'Riordan (FSFE Brussels and patent issue 
representative), Shane Coughlan (FSFE legal coordinator) and Marko Milenovic 
(FTF team member) will represent FSFE.</p>

<p>This workshop has limited space available and therefore attendance is by 
invitation only.  Projects and companies interested in attending this event 
should contact the FTF at ftf at fsfeurope.org.</p>

<p>The European Licensing and Legal Workshop for Free Software is one of the 
activities of FSFE's Freedom Task Force, also known as the FTF.  The FTF is an 
infrastructure project that can help individuals, projects and businesses 
understand Free Software licensing and the opportunities that it presents. The 
FTF works in partnership with gpl-violations.org to deal with licence 
violations in the European arena.</p>

<p>The FTF undertakes several activities, ranging from the operation of a 
European Legal and Technical Network which currently covers sixteen European 
countries and with contacts around the world through to delivering training 
and consultancy in Free Software licensing. It provides a variety of services 
for individuals, community projects and commercial businesses with the aim of 
fostering best practice throughout the industry.</p>

<p>For more information about the FTF or the first European Licensing and Legal 
Workshop please contact the FTF:</p>

<p>The Freedom Task Force can be emailed at ftf at fsfeurope.org</p>

<address>
Belgium:     +32 2 747 03 57 ext 408<br />
Germany:     +49 700 373 38 76 73 ext 408<br />
Sweden:      +46 31 7802160 ext 408<br />
Switzerland: +41 43 500 03 66 ext 408<br />
UK:          +44 29 200 08 17 7 ext 408 
</address>

<p>The Freedom Task Force website is located at <a href="http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/"
title="Freedom Task Force">http://www.fsfeurope.org/ftf/</a></p>

<p>About the Free Software Foundation Europe:</p>

<p class="aboutfsfe">The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) is a non-profit
non-governmental organisation active in many European countries and
involved in many global activities. Access to software determines
participation in a digital society. To secure equal participation in the
information age, as well as freedom of competition, the Free Software
Foundation Europe (FSFE) pursues and is dedicated to the furthering of
Free Software, defined by the freedoms to use, study, modify and copy.
Founded in 2001, creating awareness for these issues, securing Free
Software politically and legally, and giving people Freedom by
supporting development of Free Software are central issues of the FSFE.</p>

<address>
Further information: <a href="http://fsfeurope.org">http://fsfeurope.org</a>
</address>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
