<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html newsdate="2008-12-15">
  <head>
    <title>FSFE announces 4 weeks of translation sprint</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>FSFE announces 4 weeks of translation sprint</h1>

    <p>Europe, 15 December 2008.</p>

    <p newsteaser="yes">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) announces a translation sprint
      for their web pages from 15 December 2008 to 11 January 2009.  The aim of
      this sprint is to provide information about Free Software and FSFE's work
      in as many languages as possible.
    </p>

    <p>
      As one of its most important means of communication with the public, FSFE
      hosts a web site at http://www.fsfeurope.org/.  Translating the texts and
      making them available for people with different native languages has
      always been important, and thanks to the untiring work of dozens of
      volunteers all around Europe, the pages are available in up to 26
      different languages.
    </p>

    <p>
      Translating FSFE's web pages is a huge task.  More than 250 pages are
      online, and several pages per week are added or updated and require new
      translations.  There's always something left to do.  More help is always
      welcome.
    </p>

    <p>
      So FSFE announces a four weeks translation sprint from 15 December 2008
      to 11 January 2009, combined with a call for new volunteers.  The job: to
      translate from English to other European languages, and to proofread
      translations.  The mission: to fill as many translation gaps as possible.
      The candidate: you.
    </p>

    <p>
      Translating and proofreading texts is a precious contribution to the work
      of FSFE and an excellent chance to spontaneously take part in its
      activities without long-term obligations.  And it's a great chance to
      contribute in a way that doesn't cost money.
    </p>

    <p>
      Interested?  Willing to spend some time on the future of Free Software?
      Ready to join one of FSFE's largest volunteer groups?  Have a look at the
      <a href="/contribute/translators/web.html">information page about webpage
        translations</a>!  And if you have further questions, don't hesitate to
      send an email to translators (at) fsfeurope.org.  Some of the language
      groups have already declared some language-specific
      <a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/TranslatorsSprint">goals for the sprint</a>
      - will you be helping your group to reach them?
    </p>

    <p>
      -- <br/>
      Reinhard Müller<br/>
      Free Software Foundation Europe<br/>
      Volunteer coordinator for web pages and translations
    </p>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
