<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Free Software Foundation Europe - London</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <h1>Application for Free Software as a Social Innovation</h1>

    <p>
      Thank you for your interest in attending the Free Software as a
      Social Innovation event in London the 2nd of November 2007. The
      event will be hosted at The Hub on 5 Torrens Street. For more 
      more information about the event itself you can go to the
      <a href="london">Free Software as a Social Innovation</a> page.
    </p>
    <p>
      <strong>
        Please submit this application before the 19th of october!
      </strong>
    </p>

    <form action="/cgi-bin/stacs-register-capacity.pl" method="post">
      <h3>Contact details</h3>

      <table>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Name:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:500px" name="name"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Address:</p></td>
          <td>
            <textarea cols="80" rows="5" style="width:500px" name="address"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Email:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:500px" name="email"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Phone:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:500px" name="phone"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </table>

      <h3>Organisation details</h3>
      <p style="width:700px">
        If you would be attending this event as a representative of a
        particular organisation, please fill in the requested information
	below.
      </p>

      <table>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Organisation name:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:500px" name="orgname"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Your position in the organisation:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:500px" name="orgpos"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Organisation type:</p><p>(ie, NGO, company, government)</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:500px" name="orgtype"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </table>

      <h3>Motivation for attending</h3>
      <p style="width:700px">
        We'd like to know a few things about why you'd want to attend this
        event and how it would help you. Please explain briefly how your
        participation at the event would benefit you or your organisation,
        and how you would be able to disseminate what you learn to others
	in your own field or geographic area.
      </p>

      <table>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <textarea cols="80" rows="7" style="width:700px" name="address"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </table>

      <h3>Travel and accommodation expenses</h3>
      <p style="width:700px">
        If you need help to pay for your travel and accommodation expenses,
        we can reimburse a reasonable amount for this. In order to be
	reimbursed, you are required to present us with receipts of the
	expenses. Please fill out how much you expect to pay for your trip
	below. If your actual costs would turn out to be higher than this,
	you need to ask us specifically for this.
      </p>
      <p style="width:700px">
	Please provide the expenses in Euros. If you have
	expenses other than travel and accommodation (for instance visa
	fees), please give the amount and details in "Other expenses".
      </p>

      <table>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Travel expenses:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:50px" name="travel"/> EUR
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Accommodation expenses:</p></td>
          <td>
            <input type="text" size="80" style="width:50px" name="acco"/> EUR
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><p>Other expenses:</p></td>
          <td>
            <textarea cols="80" rows="5" style="width:500px" name="otherexp"/>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </table>

      <!-- Should help against spam -->
      <p class="n">
        Please do not put anything in here:
        <input type="text" size="40" name="link"/>
      </p>

      <center>
        <input type="submit" value="Submit application"/>
      </center>
      <!-- Translators: Please change the value here to your language -->
      <input type="hidden" name="language" value="en"/>
    </form>
  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
