<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Our Work - FSFE</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="/projects/">Our Work</a></p>
    <h1>United Nations</h1>

    <div id="introduction">
      <p>
      	Free Software Foundation Europe works to create general
      	understanding and support for software freedom in politics,
      	business, law and society-at-large. We are now involved in many
      	projects and focusing <a href="#campaigns">our campaigns</a> on
      	core matters of information society.
      </p>
    </div>
    
    <ul id="priorities" class="overview">
     <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/ftf/ftf.html">Freedom Task Force</a></h3>
        <p>
          The Freedom Task Force is helping individuals, projects and businesses
          with Free Software licensing. It provides assistance and training. We
          cooperate with GPL-violations.org and provide <a
          href="/projects/ftf/documentation.html">documentation including for
          the GNU GPL</a>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/ftf/network.html">The European Legal Network</a></h3>
        <p>
          We maintain the world's largest private, non-partisan, vendor-neutral
          network of legal experts in the field of Free Software licensing.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/os/os.html">Open Standards</a></h3>
        <p>
          Open Standards are key to interoperability, enabling users to escape
          vendor lock-in. FSFE's goal is making sure that people do not have to
          lose data when migrating to Free Software.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/un/un.html">United Nations*</a></h3>
        <p>
	  FSFE is active since 2002 on the UN level, having contributed to <a
	  href="/projects/mankind/mankind.html">making Free Software a world
	  heritage at UNESCO</a>. We are currenlty involved in the following
	  instances:
	</p>
        <ul>
	  <li><a href="/projects/wipo/wipo.html">World Intellectual Property Organization</a></li>
	  <li><a href="/projects/igf/igf.html">Internet Governance Forum</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <ul class="overview">
      <li>
        <h3><a href="">European Commission</a></h3>
        <p>
          FSFE is a third interested party in <a href="">the European
          Commission's investigation on Microsoft's monopoly in the domain of
          Web browsers and the sharing of interoperability information*</a>. We
          were involved in assisting Samba developers against Microsoft on the
          agreement on interoperability (see <a
          href="/projects/ms-vs-eu/ms-vs-eu.html">Microsoft versus European
          Union citizens</a>).
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/about/speakerlist.html">Public Awareness</a></h3>
        <p>
          Working with us are experts who can represent FSFE and serve the Free
          Software movement at a conference, event or panel discussion.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/education/education.html">Education</a></h3>
        <p>
          FSFE actively promote the use of Free Software in schools and
          universities. Free Software is pedagogically superior, its basic
          spirit involving freedom and cooperation is the same spirit of
          education in a democratic environment.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h3><a href="/projects/swpat/swpat.html">Software patents in Europe</a></h3>
        <p>
          Software patents for Europe are currently being pushed forward
          actively by a lobby gathering around the European patent office and
          the Business Software Alliance (BSA), which represents the interests
          of the large U.S. companies. Software patents are a menace to society
          and economy.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>

    <p style="clear:both">Our <a href="/documents/documents.html">documents</a> contain much information about FSFE's contribution to these different projects.</p>
    
    <h2>Campaigns</h2>
    
    <ul id="campaigns" class="overview">
      <li>
      	<h3><a href="http://pdfreaders.org">PDFreaders.org</a></h3>
      	<p>
	  Launched by the Fellowship of FSFE, pdfreaders.org is a site providing
	  information about PDF with links to Free Software PDF readers for all
	  major operating systems.
      	</p>
      </li>
      <li>
      	<h3><a href="http://drm.info">DRM.info</a></h3>
      	<p>
      	  DRM.info is a collaborative platform initiated and maintained by
      	  FSFE to inform on the dangers of Digital Restrictions Management
      	  and make visible the concerns from various different groups.
      	  DRM.info contributors include digital liberty, consumer
      	  protection, net-activism and library organisations.
      	</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <ul class="overview">
      <li>
      	<h3><a href="http://test.fsfe.org/projects/wipo/wiwo.html">Towards a World Intellectual Wealth Organization</a></h3>
      	<p>
      	  We endorse and support the Geneva Declaration, and invite its
      	  drafters, signatories, and the United Nations to start thinking
      	  now not only about what the role of WIPO should be, but rather
      	  what kind of organisation we need in its place.
      	</p>
      </li>
      <li> 
     	<h3><a href="/projects/btw09/btw09.html">"Ask your candidates" - German Federal Election 2009</a></h3>
	<p>
	  During the German federal elections in 2009, FSFE called on all German
	  Free Software supporters to ask the parties' candidates about their
	  positions on Free Software and Open Standards.
    	</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    
    <p style="clear:both">
      The Free Software Foundation Europe has worked on many other issues and
      campaigns. See our <a href="/projects/finished.html">Finished And
      Discontinued Projects</a> for details of what we've achieved.
    </p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date: 2010-01-14 14:08:10 +0100 (jeu. 14 janv. 2010) $ $Author: ato $</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
