<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html>
  <version>1</version>

 <head>
    <title>PDFreaders - Guide</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<h1>Guideline for contacting public institutions and asking them to remove proprietary advertisements 
from their website</h1>

 
<p>Making governments or public institutions change their website can
be a long process. First of all, please keep in mind that your request
will probably be the first of its kind for most institutions, and the
person you are speaking or writing to may have no idea what you are
talking about. In all your communication, it's very important that you
remain <em>polite, calm, and persistent</em>. Shouting won't get you
  anywhere, ever.</p>

<p>We want public institutions to remove the advertisement for non-free 
PDF readers because public bodies should not ask their citizens to use
  non-free software. They should not distort the market by expressing 
a preference for a particular vendor. If they want to point people to download 
documents, they should offer them in a vendor neutral way and provide several options, 
for example in <a href="http://pdfreaders.org/graphics.en.html">linking to pdfreaders.org</a>.</p> 

<p>We also want to use this opportunity to explain to public
institutions the advantages of Free Software, particularly the fact
that it keeps them and us free from vendor lock-in. This leaves both
public bodies and citizens free to choose the software they prefer,
and in the long term lowers the public sector's IT costs.</p>


<h2 id="schedule">How to get involved:</h2> 
<p>Here's a step-by-step guide to getting involved:</p>
 <ul>
  <li>
   <strong>Tell us</strong>: If you want to help contacting the institutions, 
please send us an e-mail telling us in which country you wish to contribute, 
and how many institutions you think you can contact. We will then
   assign you a list of institutions, and send you the PDF versions of the letters to be sent.
This way we avoid contacting the same institution twice. This saves
   work for everyone. Just send a mail
  at <a href="mailto:pdfreaders&#64;lists.fsfe.org">pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org</a>
  with the word "PDFcontact" in the subject line.
  </li>
  <li>
   <strong>Prepare the letter</strong>: We will send you a PDF file of
   the petition and of the letters to be sent. Please state in your
   mail whether you want to contact the institution in your own name,
   or if you'd rather send the letter on our behalf, using the
   address of <a href="/contact/contact.en.html">FSFE's Berlin office</a>. Print both files. Stick
everything in an envelope and mail it to the institution.
  </li>
  <li>
   <strong>Remain available for contact 
</strong>: The institutions will probably have questions. If you have
   given sent the letter in your name, the questions will be directed
   to you. We have prepared a list of the most likely ones in
   our <a href="https://wiki.fsfe.org/PdfreadersCampaignFAQ">FAQ</a>. If
   you are unable to respond to a question they are asking
   you, <a href="mailto:pdfreaders&#64;lists.fsfe.org">send us a
   mail</a> or <a href="/contact/contact.html">contact us by other means</a>. In any
   case, try to be as helpful and patient as possible with the
   institutions, and be ready to explain to them the basics of Free
   Software, and why they shouldn't advertise proprietary software.
  </li>
  <li>
   <strong>Check and remind</strong>: If/Once you get the confirmation
by the institution that it has removed the advertising or added a
link to free PDFreaders, take the time to go to their website and make
sure that they've got it right. Check not only on the page that was
reported, but on the whole website. If there are still advertisements
for proprietary PDF readers, please contact them again, thanking for
the effort and asking for them to be coherent in their policy.

If the institution hasn't responded to you after one week, please give 
them a phone call or send them an e-mail asking what became of your letter. 
Again, remain polite, friendly and calm at all times. 
  </li>
  <li>
   <strong>Report your success</strong>: Once the institution has removed 
the advertisements or added also a link to free PDFreaders, send them a mail 
to thank them. Please also send a mail at <a href="mailto:pdfreaders&#64;lists.fsfe.org">pdfreaders@lists.fsfe.org</a> 
so that we can add a closing date for the bug. Progress will be documented on the <a href="/activities/pdfreaders/buglist.html">list of reported institutions</a>.
  </li>
 </ul>

</body>

</html>

