<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - FTF About</title>
  </head>

  <body>
	<h1>About the Freedom Task Force</h1> <!-- scribus style: "subject" -->

	<h2>Freedom Task Force</h2> <!-- scribus style: "project paper" -->

	<h2>Abstract</h2> <!-- abstact area -->
	<!-- scribus style: all paragraphs in the abstract area use the "abstract" style -->
	<p>The Freedom Task Force (FTF) is a project managed by Free Software Foundation Europe that provides licence support services to individuals, projects and businesses involved with Free Software. The FTF offers a variety of services for individuals, community projects and commercial businesses, using our network of legal and technical experts throughout Europe to deliver timely solutions. We can answer questions, provide training and help various organisations implement best practices for using Free Software.</p>

	<h2>Text</h2> <!-- main text area -->

	<!-- scribus style: all normal paragraphs use "text" as style -->

	<h3>Fiduciary services</h3> <!-- scribus style: all h3 use "subject in text" -->

	<p>We can act as the legal guardian of Free Software projects. We can consolidate and manage the legal side of things while you focus on ensuring your project reaches its full potential. We can also help consolidate your copyright under your own administrative umbrella with the Fiduciary Licence Agreement (FLA).</p>
	
	<h3>Licence enforcement</h3>
	
	<p>We work in partnership with gpl-violations.org to resolve licensing issues. We seek to resolve problems for the long-term benefit of Free Software rather than regarding with each case as an isolated infringement. We seek to educate people in how to properly use Free Software.</p>

	<h3>Our People</h3>
	
	<p>The Freedom Task Force has a full-time coordinator. We operate a network of ten highly respected legal experts, five of whom are practicing lawyers. We also operate a network of eight technical experts and a mailing list for volunteers interested in ensuring that everyone benefits from Free Software equally. When necessary we form ad-hoc teams of specialists to deal with specific issues. The FTF is cooperating with law firms with expertise in Free Software licensing questions in several European countries. The FTF recommends qualified legal experts by request.</p>

	<h3>Our Methods</h3>
	
	<p>We believe in positive engagement and constructive dialogue. We seek to resolve issues amicably and for the long-term benefit of Free Software.</p>
	
	<h3>Our Goals</h3>
	<ul> <!-- scribus style: all item are in style "item" -->
		<li>To collect, analyse and share legal knowledge about Free Software.</li>
		<li>To safeguard the interests of Free Software projects and businesses.</li>
		<li>To bring together experts in Free Software legal issues.</li>
		<li>To work with other groups and help them achieve similar goals.</li>
	</ul>	

	<h2>Adress</h2>
	<!-- scribus style: each line uses the style "address" -->
	Free Software Foundation Europe<br />
	Sumatrastrasse 25, 8006 Zürich, Switzerland<br />
	E-Mail: ftf@fsfeurope.org<br />
	Phone: +41 43 500 03 66 ext 408<br />
	For local contact see: http://fsfeurope.org/ftf/contact.en.html<br />

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
