<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>FSFE - About the SELF project</title>
  </head>

  <body>
	<h1>About the SELF project</h1> <!-- scribus style: "subject" -->

	<h2>The SELF project</h2> <!-- scribus style: "project paper" -->

	<h2>Abstract</h2> <!-- abstact area -->
	<!-- scribus style: all paragraphs in the abstract area use the "abstract" style -->
	<p>Learning is at the heart of every society in the world. In order for humankind to evolve, we learn from the past, through imprints made upon us while growing up, knowledge passed onto us from our parents and the environment around us, or more recently, formal training through schools and universities. The SELF project, an acronym for Science, Education and Learning in Freedom, is a research project to produce educational materials on Free Software and Open Standards for use in such training.</p>

	<h2>Text</h2> <!-- main text area -->

	<!-- scribus style: all normal paragraphs use "text" as style -->

	<h3>The partners</h3> <!-- scribus style: all h3 use "subject in text" -->

	<p>The SELF project is formed by seven international partners and sponsored for a two year period by the European Commission. The partners of the project are Internet Society Netherlands (ISOC.NL), Universitat Oberta de Catalunya (UOC), Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE), University of Gothenburg (UG), Internet Society Bulgaria (ISOC.BG), Fundación Vía Libre (FVL) and Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education (HBCSE), which are settled in Holland, Spain, Europe, Sweden, Bulgaria, Argentina and India, respectively.</p>
	
	<h3>The project goals</h3>

	<p>In its work, the project will create an online environment for the collaborative creation and sharing of educational materials, and will do so by creating the web platform necessary for this kind of collaboration, and demonstrate its use by collecting and putting educational materials on Free Software and Open Standards into use on the platform.</p>
	
	<h3>The platform</h3>

	<p>The platform itself will support common operations such as the merging of learning materials, reuse, adaptation, editing as well as collecting learning materials into forms useful for specific courses. It will also provide the necessary tools for the translation of materials into other languages, and the use of materials in many different forms, such as course texts, presentations, e-learning programmes, e-books, educational audio and video, manuals and reference materials.</p>
	
	<h3>The role of the FSFE</h3>

	<p>One seminal role of the FSFE inside the SELF project is to take care of all legal issues that may arise, as well as to form the Legal Expert Group to handle such regularly arising issues such as new licenses and legal maintainability of the platform. The legal work of the FSFE in the SELF project is done by our Freedom Task Force.</p>

	<h2>Adress</h2>
	<!-- scribus style: each line uses the style "address" -->
	Free Software Foundation Europe<br />
	Talstraße 110, 40217 Duesseldorf, Germany<br />
	E-Mail: office@fsfeurope.org<br />
	Phone: +46 31 780 21 61<br />
	http://fsfeurope.org/projects/self/<br />

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
