<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>Classification of Free Software as a World Cultural Heritage</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <p class="postit">
      This project was discontinued. The pages here are kept for archiving
      purposes.
    </p>

	<div align="center">
		<h2>Classification of Free Software as an intangible world
			cultural heritage</h2>

  <table width="30%" summary="Menu">
    <tr><td>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="done.en.html">Work done</a></li>
      <li><a href="support.en.html">Supports</a></li>
      <li><a href="links.en.html">Links</a></li>
      <li><a href="contact.en.html">Contact</a></li>
      <li><a href="press.en.html">Press</a></li>
      <li><a href="help.en.html">How to help</a></li>
    </ul>
    </td></tr>
  </table>
	</div>

  <p>A working group has been set up in January 7th, 2002 by
	<a href="http://www.april.org/">APRIL</a> and <a
href="http://fsffrance.org/">FSF France</a>.
	The original idea is from Pierre Jarillon (<a
href="http://www.abul.org">ABUL</a> president). The objective is to have Free
  Software classified as an intangible world cultural heritage by the
  <a href="http://www.unesco.org/">UNESCO</a>.</p>

	<p>Why? First you must understand it would benefit to the Free Software
  community, but also to humankind as a whole. Free software is not only about
  computer science, technique or even licenses. It deals with freedom,
  equality and fraternity. Freedom to copy, to study, to modify and to
  redistribute software or documentations. Equality, same rights for every
  user, without discrimination. Fraternity, because we talk about sharing and
  mutual help. Moreover Free Software is already part of the humankind heritage,
  in fact. We are trying to obtain a UNESCO recognition. The previous values
  are common to the Free Software community and the UNESCO.</p>

  <p>Now let's see what the community could expect from this recognition. First
  a strong support, because the UNESCO is a major organisation, with an 
  important aura. It could give a major recognition to Free Software, and a
  very large diffusion. Sort of planetary promotion. Finally, it would also
  bring legal protection to Free Software (via the UNESCO legal services),
  against looming <a href="links.en.html">threats</a>.</p>

  <p>We'll begin by ethic/philosophical arguments. We previously talked about
  freedom, equality and fraternity values, about our philosophy which is 
  beneficiary for humankind as a whole. We also add the transparency value, 
  which prevails in our community. Finally you should keep in mind only 
  Free Software can be considered as world heritage. "To serve humanity with
  software, software should be free, because software belongs to human 
  knowledge. Proprietary software does not belong to human knowledge." (Richard 
  M. Stallman, GNU project founder and <a href="http://www.fsf.org">Free 
  Software Foundation</a> president).</p>

  <p>Now, the social arguments. It's a question of mutual help and knowledge
  sharing. To make tools (and even much more than tools) available for
  everybody. It seems to meet UNESCO values. Free Software allows a situation
  where nobody limits others freedom. Nobody forbids you to copy, to use, to 
  modify or to redistribute, nobody chains you up. Let's add Free Software
  allows a quicker development for developing countries (not only them, it's
  also true for other countries). They also allow protection of cultures and a 
  better ease of use, due to multilingual support.</p>

  <p>Technical arguments? Free Software has already proved itself (stability,
  performances, etc). It's also essential in the field of computer security,
  because it's the only one which gives transparency and verification, in a
  field where there can be no blind confidence in this or that software
  editor. Internet would be pretty different from what it is now without
  Free Software (60% of web servers, large part of email or DNS servers, etc)
  and the Network would have grown slower without it. Free Software brings
  continuity: you won't be blocked by an editor disappearance or trapped in the
  version race ("sorry version N-1 is no more supported and nothing runs with
  it, and you'll need to change all your hardware to use version N, whose
  files are not compatible with version N-1"). Finally Free Software is about
  benefit from work already done, not reinventing the wheel, "sitting on
  giants'shoulders" (one can see further).</p>

  <p>What about independence? First, there is independence of governments. Not
  just voters or citizens to satisfy, no election dates to muddle decisions.
  Secondly, independence of companies. Not just market shares, consumers or
  shareholders. Finally, independence of political parties. And no frantic 
  pursuit of profit in contempt of everything else, no obligation to release
  unfinalised versions. Even if a government, a company or a party develops
  a free software, user freedoms are protected and everybody can carry on with
  the project in their own way if necessary.</p>

  <p>And now, the facts: Free Software is already part of the world heritage,
  as previously said. And it has numerous supports, from governments,
  associations, firms, and more and more users. Even the UNESCO has a
  <a href="http://www.unesco.org/webworld/portal_freesoft/">Free Software
  portal</a> and leads <a
href="http://www.unesco.org.uy/informatica/consorcio/index.html">actions in
  Latin America</a>.</p>

  <p>Group leader: Benoît Sibaud (bsibaud@april.org)</p>

  </body>

</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
