<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
    <title>FSF France - Free softwares for chemistery</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	Anglais | <a href="chimie.fr.html">Français</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
<p align="center"><font size="+2"><b>Free softwares for chemistery</b></font>
<font size="-2">(Listed by Jérôme Pansanel.)</font>
</p>
<TABLE CELLPADDING="10" RULES="all">
<TR>
<TH>Name</TH>
<TH>Description</TH>
<TH>URL</TH>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>AMMP</TD>
<TD>a modern full-featured molecular mechanics, dynamics and modeling program. </TD>
<TD>http://www.cs.gsu.edu/~cscrwh/ammp/ammp.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>ChemCalc</TD>
<TD>a calculator that is more oriented towards chemistry.</TD>
<TD>http://chemcalc.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Chemeq</TD>
<TD>translate chemical equations to LaTeX code.</TD>
<TD>ftp://boltz.univ-littoral.fr/pub/chemeq/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Chemsuite</TD>
<TD>molecular 2/3D drawing and chemical reaction simulation software.</TD>
<TD>http://chemsuite.seul.org/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>CHIMP</TD>
<TD>a generic tool for the modeling of chemical phenomena.</TD>
<TD>http://chimp.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>CRK</TD>
<TD>The CRK (Chemical Resource Kit) is the collective name describing three chemistry-related software packages.</TD>
<TD>http://crk.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>DND</TD>
<TD>intend to build a GUI for molecular dynamics simulation of molecule.</TD>
<TD>http://theopenlab.uml.edu/dnd/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Garlic</TD>
<TD>a free/open source molecular visualization program for UNIX/Linux.</TD>
<TD>http://pref.etfos.hr/garlic/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>gdpc</TD>
<TD>a program for visualising molecular dynamic simulations.</TD>
<TD>http://www.physics.helsinki.fi/~frantz/software/gdpc.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>gdis</TD>
<TD>a GTK based program for visualizing molecules and periodic systems.</TD>
<TD>http://gdis.seul.org/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Ghemical</TD>
<TD>a molecular modelling software package with nice 3D-visualization tools.</TD>
<TD>http://www.uku.fi/~thassine/ghemical/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>GPeriodic</TD>
<TD>a periodic table reference software.</TD>
<TD>http://gperiodic.seul.org/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>GtkChemkin</TD>
<TD>handles save-files written by the chemkin program.</TD>
<TD>http://kruemel.mine.nu/~nilsb/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>JChemPaint</TD>
<TD>a program for drawing 2D chemical structures, written in Java.</TD>
<TD>http://jchempaint.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>JCML</TD>
<TD>Java library for utilizing Chemical Markup Language (CML).</TD>
<TD>http://www.openscience.org/~egonw/cml/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Jmol</TD>
<TD>an open-source molecule viewer and editor.</TD>
<TD>http://jmol.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>kc</TD>
<TD>transforms chemical equations into simulation programs.</TD>
<TD>ftp://fatou.ruc.dk/pub/kneth/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Kemistry</TD>
<TD>a collection of chemistry-related applications for KDE.</TD>
<TD>http://kemistry.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>KMol</TD>
<TD>KMol is a molecular weight and elemental composition calculator.</TD>
<TD>http://www.idiom.com/~tomi/kmol.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>KMovisto</TD>
<TD>KMovisto is a molecule viewer for using in quantum chemistry. The program reads GAUSSIAN 94 and GAUSSIAN 98 files (obtained from UNIX or MS Windows systems) or XYZ files and draws the molecule as a ball and stick model.</TD>
<TD>http://members.tripod.de/PageOfMH</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Lennard</TD>
<TD>Nobel Gas Simulator</TD>
<TD>http://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/science/chemistry/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Moiss</TD>
<TD>a n-particle, n-dimensions Monte Carlo Schroedinger equation integrator</TD>
<TD>http://sourceforge.net/projects/moiss/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Moldy</TD>
<TD>Moldy is a general-purpose molecular dynamics simulation program. It is sufficiently flexible that it ought to be useful for a wide range of simulation calculations of atomic, ionic and molecular systems.</TD>
<TD>http://www.earth.ox.ac.uk/~keith/moldy.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>MOSCITO</TD>
<TD>MOSCITO is designed for molecular dynamics simulations of condensed phase systems defined by classical molecular mechanics force-fields such as AMBER, OPLS, CHARMM and GROMOS.</TD>
<TD>http://ganter.chemie.uni-dortmund.de/~pas/moscito.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>MPQC</TD>
<TD>MPQC is the Massively Parallel Quantum Chemistry Program.</TD>
<TD>http://aros.ca.sandia.gov/~cljanss/mpqc/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>NanoCAD</TD>
<TD>NanoCAD uses mathematical techniques of molecular modeling to simulate the behavior of molecules on your web browser.</TD>
<TD>http://world.std.com/~wware/ncad.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>ORAC</TD>
<TD>ORAC is a program for running classical simulations of biomolecules. Simulations can be carried out in the NVE, NPT, NHP, and NVT thermodynamic ensembles.</TD>
<TD>http://www.chim.unifi.it:8080/orac/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>OSET</TD>
<TD>Computer-Assisted Organic Synthesis (CAOS) program for use in the teaching of Organic Chemistry, and retrosynthetic analysis in particular.</TD>
<TD>http://litio.pquim.unam.mx/caos/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>VASP Viewer</TD>
<TD>This is a scientific visualization package for examining output files generated by the Vienna Ab-initio Simulation Package, a package for performing ab-initio quantum-mechanical molecular dynamics using pseudopotentials and a plane wave basis set.</TD>
<TD>http://vaspview.sourceforge.net/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>XMakeMol</TD>
<TD>a program for viewing and manipulating atomic/molecular systems given in xyz format.</TD>
<TD>http://vegemite.chem.nottingham.ac.uk/~xmakemol/</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>xyz2rgb</TD>
<TD>xyz2rgb makes pretty pictures and movies of molecules. It expects input in the form of an XYZ file, one of the file formats frequently used by computational chemists. As output, it produces one or more line-interlaced RGB files.</TD>
<TD>http://world.std.com/~wware/xyz2rgb.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>Chemtools</TD>
<TD>Chemtool is a small program for drawing chemical structures on Linux and Unix systems using the GTK toolkit under X11.</TD>
<TD>http://ruby.chemie.uni-freiburg.de/~martin/chemtool/chemtool.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>mwcalc</TD>
<TD>This program is a Molecular Weight Calculator (console tools).</TD>
<TD>http://pansanel.multimania.com/linux/mwcalc.html</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
<TD>MMTK</TD>
<TD>The Molecular Modelling Toolkit (MMTK) is an Open Source program library for molecular simulation applications. In addition to</TD>
<TD>http://dirac.cnrs-orleans.fr/MMTK/</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Mis à jour:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
