<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html
          PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html lang="fr">
  <head>
    <title>FSF France - Free Software and science</title>
  </head>
  <body>

    <div> <!-- The header will be inserted here -->
      <center>
	[
	<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->
	Anglais | <a href="science.fr.html">Français</a>
	]
      </center>
      <p />
      <blockquote>

<center>
    <h2>FSF France - Free Software and science</h2>
</center>

	<b>Presentation.</b>

          <p>Joris Van der Hoven initiated an APRIL working group to
          support Free Software in science.  He's the author of <a
          href="http://www.texmacs.org/">GNU-TeXmacs</a> and works for
          a french university himself and advocates that software made
          while conducting a research financed by the government
          should be released as Free Software.</p>

          <p> The very spirit of research does not fit well with the
          restrictions imposed by proprietary licenses. Besides,
          citizens are not too happy when they have to finance the
          research and buy the product when it is released.</p>

          <p> A french-speaking discussion-list was created <a
          href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-france-sci">fsfe-france-sci@gnu.org</a>
          to discuss this subject.</p>

          <p>Web pages are also envisaged. A CVS repository was
          created on savannah.</p>

          <p>If you wish to participate, please join us on the working
          mailing list : <a
          href="http://mail.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fsfe-france-sci">fsfe-france-sci@gnu.org</a>.</p>

<b>Contributions.</b>
	<p>The table shows what is actually available.</p>
	<table width="100%" border="1" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="0">
		<tr>
		<th>Kind of resources</th>
		<th>See the web page</th>
		<th>First contributor</th>
		</tr>
		<tr>
		<td align="center">Free softwares for chemistery</td>
		<td align="center"><a href="chimie.en.html">chemistery</a></td>
		<td align="center">Jérôme Pansanel</td>
		</tr>
	</table>

      </blockquote>
    </div> <!-- The footer will be inserted here -->

    Mis à jour:
    <!-- timestamp start -->
    $Date$ $Author$
    <!-- timestamp end -->

  </body>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
