<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<html newsdate="2010-02-09" type="newsletter">
<head>
  <title>FSFE Newsletter - January 2010</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>FSFE Newsletter - January 2010</h1>

<p newsteaser="yes">In January, FSFE was awarded the Theodor Heuss Medal as a "trendsetting
organisation". This recognition for the hard work of the past years was a
good start into the new year.</p>

<p>FSFE participated in a WIPO meeting on patents and standards, moved forward
with the restructuring of the website, identified two Fellowship candidates
for the Fellowship seat in FSFE's General Assembly, and much more. </p>

<p>Read further January Newsletter</p>

<p align="right"><a href="mailto:poderi@fsfeurope.org">Giacomo Poderi</a></p>

   <h3>Table of Contents</h3>
<ol>
<li><a href="#1" name="TOC1">Fellowship elections, introducing the candidates: Julia Klein and Björn Schießle</a></li>
<li><a href="#2" name="TOC2">Ongoing website restructuring</a></li>
<li><a href="#3" name="TOC3">Standards and patents at WIPO, Geneva, Switzerland, 25-29 Jan</a></li>
<li><a href="#4" name="TOC4">Fellowship Jabber meeting: "What does it mean to be a candidate for the GA seat?", 06 Jan</a></li>
<li><a href="#5" name="TOC5">December Fellowship grants</a></li>
<strong>In the spotlight</strong>
<li><a href="#6" name="TOC6">FSFE honoured with Theodor Heuss Medal - "trendsetting organisation"</a></li>
<strong>It happened in the past</strong>
<li><a href="#7" name="TOC7">First draft of GPLv3 presented</a></li>
<strong>Upcoming events</strong>
<li><a href="#8" name="TOC8">Election for Fellowship GA seat</a></li>
<li><a href="#9" name="TOC9">FOSDEM, Brussels, Belgium, 06-07 Feb</a></li>
</ol>


<p></p>


	<h3><a name="1"/>Fellowship elections, introducing the candidates: Julia Klein and Björn Schießle</h3>
	
	<p>Julia Klein and Björn Schießle are the two candidates who will run for
the election of the second available seat as Fellowship representative at
FSFE's GA. Both have been Fellows for a few years now. Julia often
participates in Fellowship events and helps in setting up FSFE's booths in
Germany. Björn is active in the German translation team, takes part in the
Baden-Würtemberg</p>

<p>Fellowship events and has a been part of FSFE's German team for several years.
More information on the voting period are available at</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20100129-01.html">http://www.fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20100129-01.html</a></li>
<li><a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/election10">http://wiki.fsfe.org/election10</a></li>
</ul>


	<h3><a name="2"/>Ongoing website restructuring</h3>
	
	<p>Last month we announced the beginning of the major restructuring of
FSFE's website. The work is not finished yet, but as it is possible to
notice by browsing fsfe.org, our webmasters team did an excellent job in
only a few weeks. The visible changes are only the top of the iceberg.
Many hours of work were spent on the improvement of the underlying
structure of the website. You can help the webmasters team by joining them
or simply by pointing out problems concerning the website.</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="mailto:web@fsfeurope.org">web@fsfeurope.org</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/contribute/web/web.html">http://www.fsfe.org/contribute/web/web.html</a></li>
</ul>


	<h3><a name="3"/>Standards and patents at WIPO, Geneva, Switzerland, 25-29 Jan</h3>
	
	<p>Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's president, and Hugo Roy, FSFE's intern,
participated in the meeting of the WIPO Standing Committee on the Law of
Patents. From FSFE's perspective, the two most important points on the
agenda were the relation between standards and patents, and limitations to
patentability. In this regard, FSFE made a statement which highlights the
relevance of transparent processes when discussing patent regulations and
gives support to the idea of creating a working program for the discussion
of limitations and exceptions of patentability, and their effectiveness in
addressing development concerns. FSFE's statement is available at:</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/?p=291">http://blogs.fsfe.org/gerloff/?p=291</a></li>
</ul>


	<h3><a name="4"/>Fellowship Jabber meeting: "What does it mean to be a candidate for the GA seat?", 06 Jan</h3>
	
	<p>On 06 January, the Fellows met on our jabber server to hear about Torsten
Grote's experience as representative for the Fellowship at FSFE's General
Assembly (GA). Torsten clarified doubts that other Fellows had concerning
this role, and encouraged them to run as candidates for the other available
seat. The election will take place during February.</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/Jabber">http://wiki.fsfe.org/Jabber</a></li>

</ul>



	<h3><a name="5"/>December Fellowship grants</h3>
	
	<p>As it happened for the application period of November, we received many
interesting grant applications and deciding amongst these wasn't easy at
all. However, the grants for December have been awarded to  Alex Bihlmaier
and Christoph Fritz, both from Germany, and Stelios Stavroulakis from
Greece. They impressed us with their enthusiasm for Free Software projects
and the many valuable contributions they have made so far.
We welcome them to the Fellowship!</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join</a></li>
<li><a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/grant.en.html">http://fellowship.fsfe.org/grant.html</a></li>
</ul>


	<h2>In the spotlight</h2>

	<h3><a name="6"/>FSFE honoured with Theodor Heuss Medal - "trendsetting organisation"</h3>

	<p>FSFE will receive this year's Theodor Heuss Medal for its extraordinary
work for equitable participation in the information society. Since 2001
FSFE has promoted the freedom to use, investigate, modify and redistribute
software in all parts of society and politics. Karsten Gerloff, FSFE's
president, and Matthias Kirschner, German team coordinator, emphasised on
the valuable efforts done by Georg Greve, Bernhard Reiter and Werner Koch,
who founded FSFE, and by all volunteers who supported us during these
years. It was them who made this success possible!</p>

	<p>The non-partisan Theodor Heuss Foundation seeks "to bring attention to
something that needs to be done in our democracy". Regarding FSFE's medal,
the Foundation states: "FSFE, as a forward thinking organisation,
contributes to the development and establishment of rules for good global
governance." The award ceremony will take place on May 8 in Stuttgart,
Germany.</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20100126-01.html">http://www.fsfe.org/news/2010/news-20100126-01.html</a></li>
</ul>

<p>Relevant links:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.theodor-heuss-stiftung.de">http://www.theodor-heuss-stiftung.de</a></li>
<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/projects/work.html">http://fsfe.org/projects/work.html</a></li>
<li><a href="http://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.html">http://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.html</a></li>
</ul>

	<h2>It happened in the past</h2>

	<h3><a name="7"/>First draft of GPLv3 presented</h3>
	
	<p>In January 2006 at MIT in Boston, USA, the first draft of the GPLv3 was
presented and discussed. Georg Greve and other FSFE representatives
participated at the first international conference on the GPLv3. An event
that marked an important milestone towards the new version of the world's
most successful Free Software license.</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://mail.fsfeurope.org/pipermail/press-release/2006q1/000127.html">Press Release</a></li>
</ul>


	<h2>Upcoming events</h2>

	<h3><a name="8"/>Election for Fellowship GA seat</h3>
	
	<p>During the whole month of February, the election for the second Fellowship
seat in FSFE's GA will take place. All Fellows will be asked to vote for
the candidates and to decide who, between Julia and Björn, will join
Torsten in representing the Fellowship in FSFE's highest decision making
body.
</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://wiki.fsfe.org/election10">http://wiki.fsfe.org/election10</a></li>
</ul>

	<h3><a name="9"/>FOSDEM, Brussels, Belgium, 06-07 Feb</h3>
	
	<p>As usual, FSFE will participate at FOSDEM with a lively and well-staffed
booth. This European event organized by the community, for the community
is the place where Free Software developers meet, and an event that you
should not miss. Drop by the FSFE booth near the entrance and say hello!
FOSDEM takes place at ULB Campus Solbosh, 50 Avenue Franklin D. Roosevelt,
1050 Brussels, Belgium. Admission gratis.</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://fosdem.org/2010/">http://fosdem.org/2010/</a></li>
</ul>

<p></p>

<p>You can find a list of all FSFE newsletters on</p>
<a href="http://fsfe.org/news/newsletter.html">http://fsfe.org/news/newsletter.html</a>

<p>You can join the Fellowship and find how to support us on</p>
 <a href="http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join">http://fellowship.fsfe.org/join</a>
 <a href="http://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.html">http://fsfe.org/contribute/contribute.html</a>
 
<p>You can order our merchandise at</p>
 <a href="http://fsfe.org/order/order.html">http://fsfe.org/order/order.html</a>

</body>

<tags>
  <tag>newsletter</tag>  
  <tag>Giacomo Poderi</tag>  
  <tag>FOSDEM</tag>  
  <tag>Fellowship</tag>  
  <tag>Theodor Heuss Medal</tag>  
  <tag>GPL</tag>  
  <tag>GPLv3</tag>  
  <tag>Open Standards</tag>
  <tag>WIPO</tag>
  <tag>patents</tag>
</tags>

	<timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
