<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" ?>

<html>
  <head>
    <title>"Free software = World Heritage" project: links</title>
  </head>

  <body>

	<div align="center">
		<h2>Links</h2>
	</div>

  <h3>Threats on free software</h3>

  <p>Software patents:</p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="http://www.april.org/actions/brevets/">Documents in
    French on software patents from APRIL</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.eurolinux.org/">EuroLinux alliance</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://swpat.ffii.org/vreji/pikta/index.en.html">Horror
    Museum of Software Patents</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.freepatents.org/">Free Patents</a></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA):</p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="http://anti-dmca.org/">http://anti-dmca.org/</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.eff.org/issues/dmca">http://www.eff.org/issues/dmca</a></li>
  </ul>

  <p>European Union Copyright Directive (EUCD):</p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="http://www.eurorights.org/eudmca/WhyTheEUCDIsBad.html">
    http://www.eurorights.org/eudmca/WhyTheEUCDIsBad.html</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://fsfeurope.org/law/eucd/eucd.en.html">
    http://fsfeurope.org/law/eucd/eucd.en.html</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://silvaneves.org/eucd/eucd-fs.en.html">
    http://silvaneves.org/eucd/eucd-fs.en.html</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://uk.eurorights.org/issues/eucd/">
    http://uk.eurorights.org/issues/eucd/</a></li>
  </ul>

  <p>Security Systems Standards and Certification Act (SSSCA, also known as CBDTPA - Consumer Broadband and Digital Television Promotion Act.):</p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="http://cryptome.org/sssca.htm">
    http://cryptome.org/sssca.htm</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.eff.org/alerts/20010921_eff_sssca_alert.html">
    http://www.eff.org/alerts/20010921_eff_sssca_alert.html</a></li>
  </ul>

  <p>TCPA/Palladium/DRM:</p>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/tcpa-faq.html">
    Trusted Computing Platform Alliance/Palladium FAQ</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.counterpane.com/crypto-gram-0208.html#1">
    Palladium and TCPA</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://newsforge.com/newsforge/02/10/21/1449250.shtml?tid=19">
    <i>Can you trust your computer?</i>, by R. Stallman</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/right-to-read.html">
    <i>The Right to Read</i>, by R. Stallman</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://www.osopinion.com/Opinions/MarkSummerfield/MarkSummerfield3.html">
    <i>Letter from 2020</i>, by M. Summerfield</a></li>
  </ul>

  <h3>References</h3>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.rfi.fr/Kiosque/Proces/fiches/fiche9.html">
  http://www.rfi.fr/Kiosque/Proces/fiches/fiche9.html</a>: "Creation of
  software should be seen as a resource as scientific discoveries, and not as a
  product from industry. Research in software should take as model research in
  mathematic, on which the fundamental works have become world heritage." (no
  date)</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.april.org/articles/communiques/pr-bresil.html">
  http://www.april.org/articles/communiques/pr-bresil.html</a>: "It is the
  same logic which works today in the field of human genome, food and
  agricultural research (with the GMO), in software or numeric documents, and
  which leads to the multiplication of patents, reserving to a few exclusive
  rights of commercial exploitation on knowledge which belongs to the common
  heritage of humanity." February 12th, 2001</p>

  <p>[French]
  <a href="http://lsm2000.abul.org/program/topic03/aull_fr.html">
  http://lsm.abul.org/archive2000/program/topic03/aull_fr.html</a>: "Under
  the lead of AAUL, African countries could also collaborate and go united to
  international forums and meetings to encourage a fair use of free software
  and look after its classification as a human heritage." 2000</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.freescape.eu.org/pipermail/escape_l/2000-April/000091.html">
  http://www.freescape.eu.org/pipermail/escape_l/2000-April/000091.html</a>
  Freescape Manifesto</p>

  <p>[French] 
  <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-23-01.fr.html">
  http://france.fsfeurope.org/news/article2001-07-23-01.fr.html</a>:
  "Olivier: scheduling of free software as world human heritage."</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://linuxfr.org/2001/10/06/5301,0,1,0,0.html">
  http://linuxfr.org/2001/10/06/5301,0,1,0,0.html</a>: News from Pierre
  Jarillon on Linuxfr: "Something news in UNESCO".</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.freepatents.org/liberty/euro.html">
  http://www.freepatents.org/liberty/euro.html</a> : "Freedom to copy
  has a lot of virtues on which we cannot do without. Most of the world
  cultural heritage, from medieval stories to graphical arts of Asia, was built
  thanks to the freedom to copy and to inspire from others."</p>

  <p><a href="http://www.unesco.org/culture/copyright">
  http://www.unesco.org/culture/copyright</a>:
  intergovernmental copyright committee</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://france.fsfeurope.org/donations/howto.fr.html">
  http://france.fsfeurope.org/donations/howto.fr.html</a>: "Free software
  belongs to scientific heritage. This point is explained in the preamble of the
  statutes." (statutes http://france.fsfeurope.org/about/statute.fr.html).<br/>
  "Free software are a vector of understanding of virtual space in schools and
  universities. This point is explained in the preamble of the statutes.<br/>
  Free software represent, in many fields, a know-how and are a source of
  learning. Universities use them as base for computer classes, they are
  objects of studies, are a base for practical work and could be object to a
  program in itself. FSFE France participates to the creation of perennial free
  software of all kinds, and all could be used for teaching."</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.autrans2003.org/">http://www.autrans2003.org/
  </a>: "Why people makes free software?"<br/>
  "For Moglen, it's a question of humanity. Similarly to the reason for which
  Figaro sings, which Mozart writes for him the music he sings, and for which
  we all build new words: because we can. Homo ludens meets home faber. The
  social condition of global interconnection which we call Internet makes
  possible the creativity for each of us in new ways, and we have not even
  seen them in dreams. Until we allow the "private property" to
  interfere.</p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.unesco.org/comnat/france/presentation1.htm">
  French national commission for UNESCO</a>, with an
  <a href="http://www.unesco.org/comnat/france/organigramme1c.htm">organisational chart</a>
  </p>

  <p><a href="http://www.unesco.org/webworld/portal_freesoft/">Portal
  of UNESCO on free software</a></p>

  <p><a href="http://www.unesco.org.uy/informatica/consorcio/index.html">UNESCO
  actions on free software in Latin America</a></p>

  <p>[French] <a href="http://www.linux-france.org/~cphil/election2002.html">
  Opinions of French political parties on free software and software
  patenting</a></p>

  <p><a href="http://www.gnu.org.pe/resmseng.html">Answer from Dr. Edgar David Villanueva
  Nuñez, Peru congressman, to MS Peru, or a good argumentation for free software</a></p>

  </body>

  <timestamp>$Date$ $Author$</timestamp>
</html>
<!--
Local Variables: ***
mode: xml ***
End: ***
-->
