<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<html>
  <version>1</version>

  <head>
    <title>PDFreaders - Parliamentary questions</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p id="category"><a href="pdfreaders.html">Free Software PDF Readers</a></p>
    <h1>Parliamentary questions</h1>
    <p>2 December 2011 - E-011374/2011 - Question for written answer to the Commission Rule 117<br />
    Jan Philipp Albrecht (Verts/ALE) , Françoise Castex (S&amp;D) , Marietje Schaake (ALDE) , Christian Engström (Verts/ALE) and Francisco Sosa Wagner (NI)<br />
    <a href="http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getDoc.do?pubRef=-//EP//TEXT+WQ+E-2011-011374+0+DOC+XML+V0//EN&amp;language=EN">Copyright: European Union, 2011 - Source: European Parliament</a></p>

    <blockquote>
    <p>Numerous EU public websites refer to proprietary software, like Acrobat
    Reader, as the only possible way of reading PDF files, and provide a
    download link. This is a case of direct advertising by public institutions,
    which creates a competitive advantage for one company to sell its
    products.</p>

    <ol>

      <li>Currently, on how many of the Commission’s own web pages do such
      advertisements appear?</li>

      <li>Could the Commission provide links to these pages, as well as names
      of EU institutions that have such advertising on their websites?</li>

      <li>What are the Commission’s reasons (e.g. financial gain, lack of other
      functional software, etc.) for advertising this particular software as
      the only possible way of reading PDF files?</li>

      <li>Have the institutions that have such advertising on their website
      explained whether they have tried other PDF readers before? Which
      software did they mention?</li>

      <li>What steps is the Commission taking to resolve this problem regarding
      a) the Commission’s own website, and b) the websites of public
      institutions in Member States?</li>

    </ol>
  </blockquote>

  </body>
</html>
